Sixteen - that’s the number of rejections we received from banks when trying to finance my brother’s surgery after a major accident at the factory where he worked. My father had to turn to a private lender who asked for an insanely high rate. My brother’s legs were finally saved, but a 12-inch suture and several implanted metal plates forced him out of the workplace. My mom, after years as a stay-at-home mother, decided to leave our rural village and seek a job in the city to pay the loan and afford both my younger brother’s and my education. As an eleven-year-old kid, I was not aware this single decision would give her and my family a label: migrant worker, just like 270 million others in China. Throughout my entire adolescence, my mom worked multiple restaurant jobs in the city and could only visit me for three hours each month at school. She seldom conveyed the gravity of her workload; instead she kept telling me that hard work and education could take me anywhere. I pushed myself harder in academic and extracurricular pursuits, becoming the first person from my village to attend college. However, at college in Shenzhen, I started to realize that my background as a migrant worker’s child could be a hurdle. In my second year, I witnessed migrant builders, working 15 hours every day to paint our college meeting hall, being shouted at by students because of their “stinky smell” and groundless rumors that “they rob and rape.” That was the first time I felt the deepseated prejudice towards migrant workers. I panicked and hid my background, because I did not want to be defined as one of them. But hiding transformed me into a person of silence and indifference. This cycle was broken in the next semester when I teamed up with six other classmates to start up our own coffee shop. All the banks rejected our loan request because none of us were “registered as city residents.” Thanks to donations from our professors, our cafe finally opened and offered job opportunities for students suffering financial difficulties. This experience revealed to me how financial insecurity keeps migrant workers at the lower rungs of the socioeconomic ladder. Only by stepping up can I make a difference. I am determined to break the paradigm, change the vested rules in established financial institutions and connect migrant workers and their children to equal financial resources. My experience with financial services at Sbarro consulting paved the first step towards my ambition. During a case for a big financial group in Vietnam, our client intended to rebrand itself as more inclusive. I led our team to formulate new value propositions when an idea popped into my mind: students who share my background are desperately in need of inclusive financial services. In the following eight months, I led a 14-person team consisting of the clients and vendors to build a digital platform, through which USD 325 million loans have been granted to over 40,000 college students and 1,200 start-ups. This case inspired me to believe that the Internet could be the real “bridge” to connect migrant workers with financial resources. To further explore the digital space, last year I co-founded Spirit Sustenance, the very first online-to-offline company providing high-end catering services in Beijing. Our digital platform resolves the huge gap between waiters’ workload and their slim income that my mom experienced. After four months, we launched our website and app and allied with 50+ foreign business associations, international schools and expat communities to promote our services. Our company proved to be a hit and is recommended as the best caterer in Beijing by the BeijingBeat website. But the achievement that we are proudest of is creating 18 full-time and 32 part-time job opportunities for migrant workers and increasing their income by 65%, which stimulated me to dive deeper into this field. My eleven-year-old self wouldn’t believe how far I have marched today. I am thankful that the label stamped on my family did not victimize us, but rather motivated me to make a change. I am committed to expanding the intersection of Internet and finance to provide more tailored and inclusive financial services for migrant workers and their children in China, and eventually smash the stigma against my class.

It is 2020, and Fre-e-cycling, the social enterprise I launched at Stanford GSB, is growing quickly as it tackles California’s e-waste problem by collecting, refurbishing and processing used electronics. Our online platform, developed at Stanford, enables consumers to sell us their electronics via a network of mobile collectors. Fre-e-cycling reduces hazardous waste, creates employment, and sells brand name electronics to aspirational consumers. Longer term, I am eyeing international expansion. Back to today. Though I’ve already led a Californian waste management social enterprise similar to Fre-e-cycling, I haven’t built a successful venture from the ground up. I’ve never conceptualized a business from scratch, attracted a first investor, or recruited a co-founder. To achieve my vision, I need support in three areas. First, while as a manager I’m relatively strong at organization and execution, I still lack interpersonal management skills – specifically, mentorship and the ability to inspire a team. Second, coming from finance, I seek to build my creative muscles. Lastly, resources and an ecosystem of social entrepreneurs and classmates will help to build my idea. Stanford GSB is the best school to help me fill these gaps and more. Franklin Mock, a former colleague and current GSBer, explained “What's unique to Stanford is the emphasis on the human side to management, the softer side of mentoring and developing people,” and suggested that Finding Partners and the Stevenson Retreat would greatly benefit me. Through offerings at CES and the d.School such as Startup Garage and Affordable Design, I would ideate, learn rapid prototyping, and pilot my idea. Resources such as MRT and the Firm Studio along with the community of entrepreneurs, classmates and an alumni network of innovators such as Harry Miller (’03) of Internon and Greg Smith (’10) of UNR, would enable me to leave Stanford ready to launch my startup. I look forward to contributing to the community by leading a trip to Chinese e-waste processors, joining the Innoventing Club, and – ignited by the skier in me – starting a Skiing Club. I will bring a dual corporate and startup perspective, while also wearing my social enterprise hat to challenge classmates with hopefully-not-too-annoying questions about ecological justice. Stanford alum Yael Fine explained to me, “If I had to define GSB’s core values, it's the entrepreneurial focus, and secondly, a desire to make an impact.” As an entrepreneurial garbage man with a social impact background and a passion to combat inequality, I would be thrilled to grow my impact further at the Stanford Graduate School of Business.

What matters most to me is doing justice to my late adoptive mother’s social and business legacy by taking it to the next level while blazing one of my own. My mother and I were quite the spectacle: me a 6’4”, Vietnamese kid, and, she a 5’4”, Hungarian Jew. She adopted me as a one-year-old who had been smuggled out of a remote Vietnamese province, taught me how to play a cutthroat game of Bridge, and insisted on bringing me hamburgers every Wednesday for lunch. But I wanted nothing to do with her real estate business, which I viewed as a sleepy one out in the suburbs, neither requiring nor inspiring much attention. In fact, I fled further and further from my family in New York with every chance I got – first switching coasts to attend UC Berkeley, then switching continents to obtain a Master’s degree from Oxford, and finally choosing to remain in the UK to work in finance. Then, in 2011, my mother was diagnosed with stage four cancer, and I went home to Westchester to step into her shoes because there was no one else willing and able to do so. She and I spent the next 11 months drinking cheap beer and enjoying the last days of an extraordinary life. Those 11 months changed everything. For almost my whole life, I had pictured my mother as a kind-hearted but unexceptional woman with a successful but unexceptional real estate business, but my conversations with her and the people she had worked with and cared for, as well as my searches through the business’s old records, painted a dramatically different picture – one of exceptional innovation and impact.  I had no idea just how inventive my mother had been and how many lives she had touched. Even at her funeral, people were telling me stories about her that I had never heard. To this day, I still hear from people who never knew my mother, but were nonetheless impacted by the news of her death. I learned that she had earned her first millions as a residential developer paying carpenters for each roof they completed, rather than by the hour. It seems obvious now, but at the time it was an insight that allowed her to build tract housing more cheaply and efficiently than incumbent developers of that era, bringing homeownership to the middle class in a way that had not been available. Even more than her business dealings, I was struck by the magnitude of her philanthropic efforts. There was a Friedman Memorial basketball court at the local Jewish Community Center, and a Friedman Foundation that I had never heard of. Less publically, she had sent her late brother’s grandchildren to college and allowed multiple tenants to remain in their places of business and residence on what she recognized were below-market leases. I had naively dismissed my mother’s business as unprofessional and non-elite, and journeyed half a world from home because I wanted branded prestige, for other people to look upon what I had done and be impressed. In my last 11 months with my mother, I realized that legacy lay not in what we build for others to talk about, but in what we are able and willing to contribute to the future. When she passed away, I took over Friedman Enterprises and eight of its affiliated entities, worth $80 million in total, and learned that while my mother was a beloved and respected local business magnate, her company had fallen into disrepair. The bookkeeping was done by pencil in a leather-bound journal, there were countless “handshake deals” with tenants and vendors, and it was unclear exactly how much money was supposed to be coming in and where it was going out. Over the next three years, I dragged the company into compliance with regulations and modern business standards. I replaced the entire infrastructure – from accounting and payroll to day-today operations. I have guided the business through multiple lawsuits and run from angry bees across an apartment building roof. I even spent four months at Spear Capital in Chicago, working on billion dollar deals, in order to learn how the biggest investors in the real estate investment industry operate so that I could bring those principles home to Friedman Enterprises. All this work brought the company back from the brink and culminated in the sale of a quarter the portfolio for 40% more than its valuation when my mom passed, a harried project in which I led a team of brokers, property managers, lawyers, and several different prospective buyers through a minefield of litigious constraints, lack of historical data, a compressed timeframe, and contentious opposition from a co-owner. I have spent the last three years stabilizing my mother’s legacy, and I want to now turn to creating my own. I started thinking about housing while working with my mother on her last deal – the sale of a strip mall to a non-profit housing developer that would have brought much-needed low- and middle-income housing to a suburb of Newark. It was a contentious project that ultimately fell apart, but in meeting with local homeowners, politicians, regulatory agencies, and developers, I began to understand just how divergent each groups’ interests seemed to be, and I developed a first-hand appreciation for why America is facing such an acute and sustained housing crisis. It was an experience that led me to work with the Elizabeth Economic Development Agency on acquiring apartment buildings in the neighborhood to keep tenants from being evicted. I was amazed at how haphazard the process of securing a $1.8 million acquisition subsidy from the New Jersey state government felt. The state did not come close to investigating our investment proposal with the same level of rigor as an investor in a Spear Capital-led project would have. I realized that private enterprises will always be better at raising and allocating capital than governments, not just for housing but across all social projects. In casting about for possible solutions, I have become more and more convinced that Social Impact Bonds, or Pay for Performance projects, will bridge this gap. Just as my mother paid for roofs completed rather than hours worked, the government is starting to pay for measurable performance indicators like recidivism reduced, homes built, or children properly educated, rather than according to historical budget precedents or expenses outlaid. The idea is just starting to take hold in the US – the $630 million Private Social Welfare Act is currently working its way through the House Subcommittee on Health – and I believe there is enormous opportunity to be seized in repositioning Friedman Enterprises as a leading social impact bond project manager. I am not equipped to lead that transformation today, which is why I am pursuing an MBA. I want to study social innovation, impact investing, and efficient management of organizations, and return to Friedman Enterprises, ready to usher it into the next era of innovation and impact. Like mother, like son.

My goal is to become Spain’s youngest Minister of Public Works and Transportation and transform the financing and delivery of infrastructure in my country. Three intermediary goals will get me there. First, expand my firm's infrastructure practice in Southern Europe and become a global expert in infrastructure delivery, especially Public-Private Partnerships. Second, leverage global expertise to serve Renfe as a senior executive or consultant. Next, become Madrid’s Secretary of Public Works, City Planning, and Transportation as a stepping-stone to the Ministry.I remember peeking out the plane's window and seeing Tokyo for the first time. It was one of those warm Japanese summer days where the blue of the Pacific, the green rolling hills, and the vast grey swath of Tokyo's buildings made the city look more like a carefully assembled model than a real place. Moving from Madrid to Tokyo, as a teenager, was a key moment in my life and one that left me with a distinctly Japanese sensibility: a passion for well built and operated infrastructure. The long tunnels drilled through the mountains were as incredible to me as the reliable and timely commuter rail that I rode every day. What's more, it struck me that, in Tokyo, everyone – from the highest bank executive to the youngest middle-schooler – used public transport. 'Why didn't we have this back home?!' In my studies in Singapore, and in my work at Craig & Samson, I've continued to deepen this passion for infrastructure. When I joined Craig & Samson, and found out we didn't do any infrastructure work in Indonesia, I did the next best thing: I helped build the practice. I joined a newly formed Southeast Asian Infrastructure team (as the only Associate asked to join) and began competing in the space. Over 2015-16, we competed in 12 bids, eventually winning two and getting our first foothold in the market. At the same time, I led the organization – from idea to execution – of a roundtable conference on “Managing Undersea Tunneling” hosted by the ASEAN Transit Association (a nonprofit). Organizing the conference was fun and exciting, and I had to wear a host of different hats: from deciding on the theme of the discussion, and connecting with senior advisors, to struggling to find a venue (Murphy's Law states your original venue will undeniably cancel 18 days prior to event) and worrying about whether anyone will show up. These experiences have taught me that the surest way to make a lasting impact is as an infrastructure owner. An owner has to navigate politics to raise funds, decide how to allocate capital, manage some of the largest construction on earth, and keep the unions, politicians, and commuters they serve happy. That's why I want to become Spain's Minister of Public Works and Transportation: it's where I can make the biggest difference and give back to my country. An ambitious and effective minister can reshape the daily commute of millions by, for example, making a smart use of privatesector resources and building a more effective bureaucracy. And I believe I have something unique to bring to Spain: a global perspective honed from living and working in 3 different continents and a toolbox of business and engineering best practices. My experiences in infrastructure have also made it clear to me the three ways in which an MBA can help me achieve my goal. The first step to reach my goal is to become a global expert in the financing and delivery of infrastructure. In particular, I need to become adept at executing Public-Private Partnerships, an area where Spain lags its Southern European neighbors (e.g., Portugal) and that will be key to filling our infrastructure investment gap (~5% of GNP). The MBA will give me credibility both  within and outside Craig & Samson to make this happen. Internally, I'll have the credibility to convince stakeholders to invest in the infrastructure practice. This is crucial given that the current leader of infrastructure in Southeast Asia will retire in the next few years. More importantly, I need the credibility to be able to sell projects and interact with senior infrastructure leaders as peers. As I learned through the roundtable conference, most infrastructure organizations- unlike tech companies– are highly hierarchical and credibility is a precious resource. Second, I'll have a unique opportunity to expand my network in Europe and Spain. HBS attracts some of the sharpest current and future leaders from Spain. When I move back, I'll be able to leverage the HBS network for expertise, advice and local contacts to help me get ahead. I'm keenly aware that there's only one Minister of Public Works and Transportation. To get that job, I'll need all the contacts and help I can get. Also, I hope that, through activities such as the European Business club's annual Vale retreat, I'll make lasting friendships with some the future leaders of the region. Finally, I'll use my time at HBS to sharpen two skills that will be crucial in my future role. First, I'll focus on becoming a more effective leader in situations where persuasion – and not authority—is the driver for change. As an infrastructure owner, you typically don't have authority over your funding; you depend on local or national sources and you're politically constrained in the fees you can charge. An ability to influence and persuade beyond my formal authority will be critical for success. HBS's course ‘The Art of Influencing’, for example, can help me better assess a political landscape, apply a repertoire of influence tactics and secure needed funding. Second, I'll be able to leverage HBS's Negotiation classes to sharpen my negotiation skills. To be a successful leader in infrastructure you have to be a savvy negotiator. As one senior participant of the roundtable put it; "I have to negotiate with the exchequer every move I make. It's like my feet are shackled." HBS can help me accelerate my career like no other place. I hope to walk out of HBS with the credibility, network and skills to make a difference to Spain's infrastructure. And I look forward to the day when a teenager peeks out a plane's window and is awed by what we've built in Madrid.

Seeing and believing in the power of education to change the life of underprivileged kids, I’m determined to be a social entrepreneur who catalyzes the progress of rural education in Southeast Asia. I want to create a social enterprise that helps connect rural children to better education and occupational skills, so that they can break free from their cycle of poverty and lack of opportunity. I believe pursuing an MBA from Harvard Business School is the best way to accelerate my dream. At age 20, I was still searching for my passion and calling in life. After some research, I decided to leave Thailand and pursue a gap year abroad. I chose Papua New Guinea because I believed it was a perfect place to challenge my adaptability and worldview. After initially securing and working a 3-month internship at a Guinean reinsurer, I was ready to start something that really excited me: working on a community service project organized by the Red Cross to impart malaria prevention knowledge to high school students. I was set to work with 8 other Thai students who just arrived. However, when we checked the project details with the Red Cross, we found a shocking fact. While we knew our broad objective, we discovered that there was no work plan, concept of operations, or local school contacts to facilitate our activities. I was very anxious and overrun with questions: if I couldn't run meaningful malaria prevention seminars, why did I travel all the way from Thailand? Apart from myself, I was even more worried about my counterparts. I got some salary from the internship since I was hired for a paid role, so I was financially stable, but they had to cover all their expenses of travelling to live and volunteer in Papua New Guinea. Given our undefined work plans, would they even stay or was this a total loss for them? Fortunately, my prior 3 months in the country prepared me to face this challenge and help my colleagues endure. The experience enlightened me to pro-actively face any situation with composure, which enabled me to solve problems and adapt to a variety of challenging situations, such as rolling blackouts, a lack of hot water, and debilitating yellow fever. I was happy to help show my teammates how to adapt to our current challenges.

Although not tasked with leading this group of eight, I proactively assumed this role. First, I held an orientation session for the other eight volunteers. I shared my recent story of dealing with my own yellow fever in a humorous tone to let them know that what seemed intimidating and perilous was not something to worry about. I also walked them through possible scenarios of what could happen over the next four months and how to cope with them. Their nervousness decreased dramatically and I could see their excitement about the project return. Since there were no existing rules to follow, I told my teammates that this was an immense opportunity for us to unleash our creativity. We could create the most successful project the Red Cross had ever seen! My team’s morale improved and we had a brainstorming session on what we could do differently. I inspired everyone to consider our target audience--school kids--and see how we could best impart knowledge to them. The team came up with a brilliant and entirely novel idea: performing a drama show on how a family coped with malaria, rejuvenated from low spirits and lived strongly as champions of malaria prevention afterwards. We were all very excited about the idea and worked tirelessly to realize it. Our next logical step was finding schools to carry out the activity. So I realized that we needed to ask for support from the Red Cross. I met with the Red Cross Operations Director and focused on discussing how publicity from our drama would help them recruit more volunteers from Thailand and have a greater impact on increasing prevention awareness. Our drama could become a model for future prevention campaigns and could enable their message to grow faster. I did not simply discuss broad ideas, however. I presented what had been lacking all along: a strategic work plan. We would target 15 schools located in 6 different poor towns to teach malaria awareness to 3,000 underprivileged students within an 8-week timeframe. Equally as important, we would write a blog to record our life in Thailand and positively illustrate our project’s progress. The Director was impressed by our creativity and determination and decided to help find schools for our education session. After earning my reputation, I was officially elected team leader. I led the team to detail our plan and broke down the tasks. I held a meeting saying I hope we can unite to do something for the locals and I worked to maximize everyone’s learnings. We openly shared our project expectations and the learning we hoped to gain. With this information, I then assigned tasks based on people’s strengths and interests. Within our team, we found show talent to perform the drama, an artist to beautify the stage, an academician to design the quiz and an English expert to write the script. The team formed a culture that was consistently on target, supportive and very optimistic regarding our challenge. The kids watched our play and responded with both laughter and a serious appreciation for the malaria prevention knowledge. We all felt self-fulfilled knowing the knowledge to prevent HIV would help these underprivileged kids lead a healthier and happier life. I was so proud of what we achieved: we exceeded the target by imparting HIV prevention knowledge to 2831 school kids and 1389 twenty-somethings, and left a comprehensive toolkit and research report for the Red Cross. We were received and recognized by the Thai Ambassador in Papua New Guinea for our accomplishment. Looking back, I felt my decision to go was 100% right. I overcame many obstacles to survive and then I was able to leverage what I learnt and my leadership to make an impact on others. I was amazed to see the potential in me that I never thought I possessed. Building off my experience in Papua New Guinea, last March I worked part-time as a pro bono branding consultant for a school that provides outstanding strategy, marketing and organization consulting services to NGO clients at a low cost. This experience enabled me to see the possibility of combining the advantages of both the for-profit and non-profit sectors in order to create transformative change. I will work towards my passion by effectively accelerating the development of my leadership  capacity so that I can eventually create an enterprise that will make a true social impact on the world. My unique background in business and in non-profits, and my leadership experience have given me a strong foundation to pursue my goals, but I need a Harvard MBA to fully realize them and empower rural Thai youth to reach their full potential.

My great-uncle, the Chairman of Chocolate King GmbH, was a real-world Willie Wonka. When I was 11, he brought me a sample of a new product he had dreamed up in his R&D lab: ‘Flavor Catastrophe,’ which allowed you to combine chewing candy bases with flavor packets in your mouth. New products were expensive to develop and test, he explained, but he thought this one was special. We debated the flavor profiles and discussed how he might test the product in focus groups and measure success once it hit shelves. Through conversations like this, my grandfather inspired me to one day become Chairman of Chocolate King in my own right. He also imparted his leadership philosophy: creating a foundation of diverse business experiences and perspectives is necessary for any subsequent business focus. I’ve always yearned for fresh adventures and perspectives, ever since my days flipping barrel rolls in barnstorming competitions. During my junior year at Stanford, this sense of adventure took me to live with a Peruvian family in Iquitos, where I also visited CK’s gum factory in the outskirts of town and met with its plant managers. CK had recently acquired an Austrian gum brand and inherited this Peruvian subsidiary; the LatAm brand was quickly losing market share and running a loss. It needed a cash infusion, and it was fascinating to compare my great-uncle’s financial strategy against the local managers’ views, including their commitment to their small-town factory workers and advocacy for the manufacture of more gumballs. At a time when most of my college friends were starting their first internships in professional services, this experience opened my eyes to the types of complex decisions involved in actually running an international business. The advice of Ford COO Liam Barnes captures my professional path to date: “Take the job that’s most uncomfortable. If your stomach doesn’t turn over a little bit, then you’re not biting off enough.” Twenty months after returning from Iquitos, I boarded a plane to Mumbai for my first post-grad job at New Frontiers Consulting, an Indian strategic consultancy. My stomach was certainly turning. I was about to take my broken Hindi 8,000 miles away to a city where I knew absolutely nobody. At first, I felt like a burden, unable to express myself. But I was determined to learn the language fluently, so I doubled down, attending 8am classes every day before work and diving headfirst into experiences that pushed me linguistically outside the office, such as serving as an advisor for a group of impoverished entrepreneurs. By my 1.5-year mark, I found myself managing a team of six first-year Indian research analysts, in Hindi, on a consulting engagement for a Chinese private equity client. We were conducting due diligence and developing an investment thesis on an acquisition target: India’s largest craft beer company. I led my team to devise an expansionary retail strategy and four months after the project wrapped up, our client followed our recommendations: announcing plans to grow the company’s retail footprint from 15 stores to 80 stores, with an emphasis on franchising. This experience enhanced my interest in international expansion and new market entry. After 20 months of expat living, I decided to move to New York and join Money Blitz, where I could gain exposure to the challenges of a high-growth, venture-backed company early in the process of expansion. Of my various projects, one personal milestone has been structuring a new private fund and designing its go-to-market strategy. While I had very little experience or knowledge in the industry, I learned that I could contribute by driving alignment between different subject matter experts – salespeople, lawyers, accountants, etc. Right now, we’re going to market and getting strong demand for the new fund that we’ve structured. My success on this project taught me that, to be a leader, I don’t need to be the most knowledgeable about every domain; instead, I need to be able to use my emotional intelligence to empower people around me to contribute their expertise. I know I want to be an operational leader and I am enthusiastic about the possibility of doing so at CK, as long as it is in my family’s control. As my aunt – the current Chairman of CK – always says, at CK “there’s always a new challenge you haven’t seen before.” The challenges I plan to address are related to growth: Chocolate King’s sales have flattened over the past few years despite excess manufacturing capacity, and I would like to lead the company through a new stage of prudent growth to become a multibillion-dollar company. To do so, I’ll have to navigate rapidly evolving retail dynamics, make strategic acquisitions of strong brands, work with marketing to address a growing consumer preference toward health and wellbeing in snacking, and drive international expansion. I plan to work my way up to the top through roles in corporate development and marketing, getting to know each of the growth levers in the business. I believe getting fresh and varied perspectives early in my career – from understanding how a startup is built without the burden of legacy infrastructure, to understanding new market entry frameworks at an Indian consultancy – is more useful preparation than going to work at CK early in my career. These experience have prepared me well, but before I join Chocolate King full-time there are a few skills that I need to develop. Specifically, I need to better understand the changing retail landscape and emerging trends in food; get a firmer grounding in the acquisition process for mid-market CPG companies; develop stronger frameworks for new market entry and go-to-market strategies; and learn about corporate governance, particularly as it pertains to family businesses. I believe that a HBS MBA is the best way to master these areas. I have been sold on the case method ever since I visited my first class at HBS, an Operations case on United Fruit Company, with my cousin (Phyllis Spraw ’14). I particularly appreciate how it leverages the diverse experiences of students in the classroom, who are speaking for 85% of class time. HBS students’ commitment to contributing their own domain expertise through the case method really sticks with me; I remember Phyllis explaining to the class how her previous employer, a cat food company, organized its salesforce. As an appointed representative on Money Blitz’s mission team over the past year, I’ve grown to appreciate that improving an organization is everyone’s responsibility, from the bottom up. Moreover, at a recent HBS Information Session that I attended, the alumni panelists stressed how the case method prepared them for roles in general management. Business leaders don’t need to know the intricacies of accounting methods or ‘capex’ models, but rather need to solve problems by coordinating inputs from specialized teams. HBS understands this: as the pioneer of the case method, HBS is unique in how it expertly weaves it into every course. I am confident that, with the leadership skills taught by the HBS case method, I can become a successful CEO at CK.

As a steel-manufacturing worker, my mom taught me a lot. I learned responsibility when she dressed in thick coveralls and worked next to 1800oC furnaces for hours with no break, and selflessness when she volunteered to work during holidays so other coworkers could spend time with their families. When she moved our family to an apartment near my school despite adding two additional hours to her bicycle commute to work, I learned love. However, even for such a wonderful woman, things could still go wrong. When I was 12, she was laid off along with thousands of co-workers and hasn’t found another full time job since. Instead, she took several part time jobs, working long hours so I could become the first college student in the family. When I was admitted, I told her, “Thanks for fighting so hard to get me into college. I am the son of a manufacturing worker, and I am proud of that.” She wrapped me in her arms, crying like a baby. I decided then to help millions of manufacturing workers in similar situations by helping their companies become profitable. Over 175 million manufacturing workers in Asia currently work long hours in uncomfortable environments. When companies are in crisis, they lay off these workers first. While big three consulting companies like my firm help some of the biggest manufacturing operations in the region, our reach is limited due to our premium consultancy fee. I want to start an affordable consulting company, advising companies in Asia’s emerging markets on incorporating digitization into their daily  manufacturing/operation activities. We will implement tailor-made strategies using the latest technologies, and train the production workers so that they will be valuable to the company and in the job market. As production efficiency increases, compensation will increase proportionally and so will the standard of living for workers like my mom. With Valley Consulting, I led teams in 12 Asian countries to transform operations, and one experience touched me especially deeply. A tire factory of 850 people was losing market share from uncompetitive costs due to low productivity, and headquarters planned to shut it down. I met one worker, Shi, who told me that to survive this crisis, the workers had increased their hours, only taking four days off every month and no weekends. They also worked night shifts to keep the production line running as much as possible. “I haven’t spent a day with my daughter for months, and I miss kissing her good night,” Shi told me, with tears in his eyes. In Shi, I saw my mother, a strong parent fighting daily to give her child every opportunity. I led a change team of 8 client managers to redesign the operating system. We resolved the roots of the plant’s inefficiency and built digital capabilities into their manufacturing process, increasing productivity by 18%, and reduced annual operating expenses by 25%, equaling $30 million. Most importantly, Shi was able to kiss his daughter before bedtime again. Before I left, Shi showed me a video of his daughter thanking me for bringing her father back, with the biggest smile I’d ever seen in my life. I never felt so determined about my future as I did at that moment. Despite my background in operations and manufacturing, I lack skills in corporate finance, sales & marketing, and raising funds. I’ll need these after HBS when I will work for venture capital firms in the U.S. and invest in digital manufacturing related startups for experience in the process of raising funds and pitching to investors. I heard at the HBS recruitment talk, “We launch the people who launch,” and I cannot wait to learn from the entrepreneurs who set up the first MBA program in the country. Courses such as Venture Capital and Digital Transformation, will teach me about raising funds and digitally transforming companies. At HBS, I will enrich my classmates’ knowledge of digital manufacturing by sharing my experience, and use my Valley Consulting interviewer background to advise those interested in consulting. I also want to learn from my peers’ experience, from raising funds to managing companies. I plan to join the Entrepreneurship and VCPE Clubs and support events such as the Entrepreneurship Conference, Career Treks, and VCPE Conference. I know what I learn at HBS will allow me to help companies in Asia improve productivity so that their workers’ kids can go to college and have the opportunities I’ve had. I hope when they grow up, they will also be proud that they are the sons or daughters of production workers.

When a purist thinks of coffee, he thinks of its acidity, aroma, and flavor. But when I sat at the worn-down table of the coffee plantation, I tasted something more. There was history here a farmer’s love for his craft that infused the taste. My experience on this trip —driving through the lush foliage of rural Vietnam, watching the mist thread through it, talking to the farmers —had changed the simple act of drinking coffee into the fulfilling experience of sharing someone else’s story. That, in itself, was powerful. In our commoditized world, it’s so easy to lose touch with the narrative and the care that go into the products we consume. As the son of two retail entrepreneurs, I’ve always been surrounded by the product. Yet, when I remember my most formative moments, they involve experiences of human connection and discovery. These moments have shaped my professional aspirations to create meaningful customer experiences in a world constantly disrupted by technology. I love e-commerce for all the same reasons everyone else does. But for me, it isn’t just a new platform to transact. It’s an avenue for brands to share narratives and really connect with customers. My time with Ravenous, an insurgent apparel and lifestyle brand, has taught me firsthand that creating and maintaining this narrative isn’t just about design and storytelling. Outlining a clear vision, scaling back-end processes and transforming culture play a crucial role. My desire to lead an iconic apparel brand – creating a meaningful customer connection and driving the organizational change needed to make that happen – brings me to HBS. The need to adapt is a lesson I learned long ago. As a teen, my life was confined to my home, my school, and the cash register at my parents’ apparel shop in Reading, Pennsylvania. I saw my parents take manual inventory counts in a beat-up spiral notebook and run their business by “gut feel,” practices that had sufficed in the markets of Shanghai but were long obsolete in a world of Excel and QuickBooks. When they lost their business in 2010 and fell into crippling debt, we experienced the pain of failing to embrace change. After my 40-year-old dad suffered a debilitating ulcer from years of financial stress, I made a life-altering decision: from here on, I would create opportunities, not just react to circumstances. I would become an agent of change in my own life, and my family’s. This desire pushed me to transfer from a little-known, local state university to Princeton. Free of work commitments, I allowed my curiosity to lead me. I dove into class discussions on jurisprudence and economic disparity. Wanting to bring this intellectual experience to others, I also began my long-term affiliation with the OLM Development Network to help underprivileged students pursue higher education. Enter Henry – a high-school dropout immune to my motivational talks. So, I brought him to classes with me…and his attitude changed. His experience inspired him to enroll in community college. I, too, was inspired, as I’d witnessed how taking an idea and turning it into an experience was a subtle alchemy that produced change. At Frankel Consulting Group, when I served Sweden’s incumbent telco on a pricing study, I saw how cultural experiences, not just economics, drove consumers. I initiated ten focus groups to understand the consumer psyche behind purchasing decisions and had a startling realization: customers associated little value with their plan’s data limits and instead valued their interaction with the company’s brand at a deep level. I saw how an emotional, experiential connection with the customer proved even more powerful than the product itself. That year, FCG saw many of its clients struggle to adapt to the advent of e-commerce. The prospect of addressing these challenges excited me, but I questioned my ability to help. I needed a firsthand understanding of how functions like merchandising and fulfillment were integrated to impact the digital customer experience. This led me to the corporate offices of Ravenous. Despite the significant pay cut and startup risk, I couldn’t forego this rare opportunity to operate a brand-driven e-commerce business and directly influence the customer experience. At Ravenous, I immediately related to the story, history, and craftsmanship behind our products. But it became clear to me that the company’s systems and processes hadn’t kept pace with its dramatic growth. Last year, as I watched Ravenous warehouse workers sort through endless piles of holiday gift returns, I wondered how simple tasks like un-boxing orders and refunding customers had become so complicated. The nerdy consultant in me was quick to implement an analytical solution: a step-by-step guide to increase efficiency and handy spreadsheets to improve organization. Still, we continued to miss our two-day refund promise to customers. My failure made me realize I’d missed the underlying issue: a corporate culture in which employees weren’t encouraged to identify and solve problems. By reengineering the process without engaging my team, I’d done nothing to improve their sense of ownership. That weekend, I met my dad at the bowling alley where he’d been teaching me the game for 20 years. Dad was in better health now, planning his next entrepreneurial move. He hit five strikes in a row effortlessly. In other words, he was creaming me…but it was nice to see his confidence back. As I struggled to catch up, he reminded me of his age-old motto: “In bowling, it’s never about the next shot. It’s about the next five.” It hit me that the solution to our returns crisis at Ravenous lay not only in shortening the refund window, but in improving our team’s ability to identify and solve problems generally. That Monday, I went back onto the warehouse floor, rolled up my sleeves and processed returns for the next month. I wanted to really understand the day-to-day challenges – and build trust. The warehouse team taught me the intricacies of dealing with one-off cases, and our discussions on the floor spawned a shared perspective on potential solutions. Articulating the challenges around processing returns gave the warehouse team a voice, and their ownership of the turnaround underpinned our success. Despite Ravenous’s continued growth and unchanged resources, the time to refund for customers dropped from 6 days to 12 hours. A textbook takeaway became a reality – leading organizational change is a complex process that must often begin with a change in culture. Also, a distinctive digital experience and narrative will only take you so far if not backed by great customer support. Digital innovation is forcing organizations to adapt in unimaginable ways. As someone aspiring to become the CEO of an iconic apparel brand, I want to ride this wave. My journey of creating meaningful customer experiences has been an intimately personal one and, recently, it led me back to its beginning. Two years ago, I helped my parents reopen their boutique: new name, location, aesthetic, and a focus on customer care. Their business broke even in less than six months. Finally, my parents have had the opportunity to enjoy their own adventures. This summer, they took a selfie at their dream destination, the Colosseum in Rome. Knowing I could take my experiences and help my loved ones make their own gave me the deepest satisfaction. Creating such experiences makes me feel I’m part of a narrative larger than my own.

My long-term career goal is set up my own production company, focusing on providing capital and resources for Turkish creative talents in film and TV production. My plan is to partner with experienced producers or directors to invest in projects from developing talents (screenwriters, directors etc.) in Turkey, simultaneously bringing in mature techniques and leading technologies through investment into overseas production and technology companies. By connecting local creativity with global expertise, I wish to unlock the full commercial potential of the Turkish entertainment industry. In the short term, I would like to join the corporate development team of a leading Turkish entertainment company, such as TVT or BlipTV. Working in corporate development at these firms will give me the knowledge and connections I need to independently evaluate investment opportunities in the industry. During my time in London, I had the chance to enjoy many shows and programs that are not accessible in Turkey. I enjoyed these shows and they made me a more openminded person – an experience I wish to share. When I was promoted back to Turkey in 2014, I extended my longstanding interest in the entertainment industry into my professional life by leading the coverage of media and entertainment for the HFR team. Despite unprecedented market growth – 30% in 2016 – the Turkish entertainment industry is still highly under-developed: today, our largest film production company is only 1/20th the size of comparable firms in the UK. I recognize that one of the key issues is lack of creative talent. In Europe, most studios have over 300 projects under development, while in Turkey producers are competing for a handful of prestige stories. Investors like HFR tend to focus only on proven stories by well-known teams, which results in a lack of resources for developing Turkish talents. I hope to fill this gap, combining my financial background and passion for the industry by starting my own fund. With my career aspiration at the intersection of art and commerce, my experiences at HFR, investing globally and in Turkey, serve as a strong foundation. However, I also realize that there are gaps I need to fill: I must develop a strategic view of the entertainment industry, learn how to manage a production company and build a global network in both the media and finance sectors. A CBS MBA would be the best way for me to master these skills, leveraging the school’s unique strengths in both media and finance. During the info session in Istanbul, I was excited by the extensive course offerings in the media and technology program. From Prof. Harvey Frank’s foundation course “Media,” to Prof. Jutta Stein’s “Acquisitions in the Film Industry,” the program would give me well-rounded experience from foundation to investment. I would also join the Media Club to expand my network and meet with companies like Warner Bros. and DreamWorks Animation regarding their partnerships with European filmmakers. CBS is also alma mater to many investors, including Warren Buffet ’51. I believe the strong CBS presence in investment will be vital for my future business. My conversations with CBS MBA alumni and students have only confirmed its dual strength in media and finance. CBS student Chad Drummon (’14), also focused on the media and entertainment sector, described how the career management center helped him secure an internship at Winder Media. I look forward to having Mr. Jerry Everett as my career coach, who has extensive experiences in the entertainment industry including some time at Golden Pictures. Abigail Pollock (’13) shared with me how she enjoyed courses like “Financial Valuation” and “Mergers & Acquisitions,” where the Professors leveraged their past experiences in the financial industry to combine theory with real-life cases in classes. Both Malik Shafei (’14) and Louisa Fey (’09) emphasized the collaborative culture among CBS students in terms of both school life and career development. During my campus visit in September, I was impressed by the richness of class discussion from students with a diversity of backgrounds and the vibrant, busy student life. I look forward to bringing my knowledge and networks in the private equity sector to my peers and the CBS alumni community.

It took me 15 years to cross the Gran Via de San Miguel. On one side is my elementary school, where my parents gave me 18 cents a day for lunch. Across the street is the Inter-American Development Bank, where last fall I secured 14 million USD to expand my family’s ophthalmology hospital into a general-duty hospital. My parents, both doctors, founded the hospital in 1988, and watching their entrepreneurial journey is what motivated me to major in business administration in university. After graduating college at age 19, I became COO. My role went well beyond a COO’s traditional responsibilities and included strategic development and financing. To hone my soft skills for leading 13 direct and 28 indirect subordinates, I completed my MA in psychology in 2011. In just four years, our revenue doubled from three million to six million dollars. By continually training our personnel and improving business processes, we could introduce new medical procedures for the first time in Honduras, such as LASIK surgery and equipment for curing crossed eyes in over 1200 kids. But I am also eager to pursue my long-term goal: scaling the family hospital into a chain of low-cost, general-duty hospitals in Central America over the next 15 years. Most Central American countries have failing public healthcare models, and soon millions of Hondurans will need affordable private healthcare. Concepts I developed for my hospital, like a centralized scheduling system, could be paired with other lessons from emerging markets to create quality services. I would love to meet Kellogg alumni Lilian Chou, who created “Caduceus,” a tool which increases patient engagement, and Fran Romero, who created “360 Healthwatch” to manage patients’ chronic care. Kellogg’s global alumni network will help me find like-minded entrepreneurs to perfect my business model and secure funding. I am excited to learn under brilliant professors in Kellogg’s Growth and Scaling and Health Enterprise Management pathways. Cindy Ramirez (’14) told me that many professors have social science degrees, so their classes have a unique focus on understanding customers. Kellogg provides the entrepreneurial environment where I 52 can prepare for my endeavors. I plan to upgrade my skills through eClub. Samantha Fitzgerald, head of the Enterprise Association, told me how I can kick my idea around in The Garage at Northwestern and compete in NU Venture Challenge. During my campus visit in October 2015, Ron Blinder (’18) told me about his experience co-leading a healthcare trek to Montreal last year, and about Kellogg’s affiliation with EXPAND, a healthcare VC space in Chicago. I want to trace a similar path and let the Kellogg MBA be as catalyst for me to become an innovative healthcare leader in Central America.

In February 2013, a fire broke out in the BP-operated Skudai refinery. In response, management implemented a new operational philosophy without consulting ground staff. However, efficiency expectations remained unchanged and the employees lost confidence under increased pressure, leading to a $65M loss in unplanned downtime. Realizing the importance of employee morale, I want to head operations of an energy company in China that is both a profitable AND a happy organization. China’s companies rank low on the ‘Global Empathy Index’ and its energy industry is in turmoil. To reconcile the conflict between profitability and employee satisfaction, I want to run operations owned by employees, provide development opportunities, and ensure participation in the decision-making process through an open feedback system. When I was leading a process unit catalyst change-out in a refinery in 2011, the technologist and mechanical engineer had an argument over dismantling a piece of equipment. Dismantling would cause delays, losing $540k. Talking to each, I discovered 54 that the technologist wanted to identify potential issues so they could be fixed in the next shutdown, while the engineer did not want to engage in what he considered an overkill exercise. I proposed instead an inspection using a specialized scanner inserted into the equipment, a feasible compromise that both happily agreed to. As a leader, I look to build an open and collaborative culture along these lines. I am on track to become Regional Manager in Asia but need an MBA to teach me the skills necessary to successfully lead operations of a large multinational energy company. After earning my MBA, I want to join a leadership rotational program like BMW’s Operations Management Pioneers Program, which will provide exposure to international best practices in operations management. Interactions with senior leaders will provide learning opportunities, such as how to keep employees motivated. London Business School is my foremost choice because of its academic flexibility, central location, connections with the energy industry, and global alumni network. LBS’s diversity is particularly appealing because of the value and personal growth that a multicultural environment brings. I will engage in Global Business Experience to visit Nigeria and learn how companies there maintain operational excellence despite challenges such as corruption. I am looking forward to Stephen Levine’s ‘Energy Strategy’ to better understand issues in the energy industry, and Lauren Croft’s ‘Business Dynamics,’ which will help me build upon my experience at the refinery. Her research on gender bias will give me a better perspective on the issues I have faced. Though China’s environment is conservative, my decision to study engineering and join a male-dominated industry is anything but. I am excited to join LBS’s ‘Women in Business’ club, which will help me find corporate role models and learn how to encourage women to realize their full potential. Between the classes, diverse atmosphere, student clubs, and location, LBS is sure to set me up for future success in realizing my goal of creating a Chinese energy industry titan.

Fire retardant men’s coveralls simply do not fit a 5’ 3” woman’s frame. However, this is my life as a female engineer for Transocean, working on oil rigs off the Pacific Coast. Through my stint on these offshore cities, I face challenges unlike those of my peers on land. For instance, I work and live with my customers on the rig, learning how to engage with completely different personality types and developing a closer level of respect and camaraderie. I’ve learned to problem solve system upsets under stressful customer scrutiny, developing my customer relationship management skills while revealing my natural inclination towards operational efficiency. My experience with Ocean Observers has sparked a passion to make a broader social impact in the world around me. I believe I have the transferable skills in operational improvement and diverse customer relationship management to pivot into a consulting role for a Social Sector practice at an MBB firm and explore that passion. This practice’s areas of expertise would expose me to economic development projects and educational management. I believe that the greatest area for positive social impact is optimization in the healthcare sector, which has been an interest of mine throughout training for my professional and non-profit experiences. After gaining robust operational, client, and management experience in consulting, I would then look to optimize the operations of the healthcare industry by joining the executive or administrative team for a program such as Better Care or Doctors’ Support. While I have the quantitative background from engineering, I need a Ross MBA to provide the business exposure I lack to thrive in consulting: the holistic, practical learning and application of strategy, finance, and accounting, complemented by its sharp focus on social impact. The Multidisciplinary Action Project would develop my leadership skills and ability to apply business principles in real-life scenarios, providing the best learning foundation for an MBB career. Ross particularly fits me through courses like Sustainable Systems and student organizations such as Net Impact @ Ross. I am eager to lead the Social Impact Challenge, with a multidisciplinary team working on real challenges in communities near the school. Ross not only provides the skills required for my goals in healthcare optimization, but also the context through which true benefits can be seen in the social sector.

Back home in Delhi, my grandfather had an “open door policy” for panhandlers, offering them work instead of charity. He listened to their stories and empathized, but steered them towards action-oriented solutions, like learning a trade. “My job,” he said, “is to empower others to better themselves and their communities.” When Papa died, countless well-wishers paid their respects. They remembered how Papa had given them tools for a trade, or found them a livelihood. Like Papa, I want to be remembered for the social and economic empowerment of individuals and entire communities. Across India, the need for sustainable economic empowerment is great, and I believe that supporting local entrepreneurs is crucial to meeting it. Entrepreneurship can stem from ingenuity, or a desire to solve problems but, back home, I’ve seen it birthed from a need to survive. When entrepreneurs succeed, the impact on their communities is lifechanging. Starting with a $100 family loan, the founder of RS Corp went from peddling beauty products door-to-door to building a $40M business that employs hundreds. Like her, roughly 70% of Indians work in the “informal sector,” subsistence businesses lacking scale and infrastructure. This underserved sector contains untapped potential overlooked by traditional incubators, which focus on the technology industry, leaving everyday entrepreneurs to fend for themselves. Microfinance institutions, meanwhile, provide loans without advice or business infrastructure. To address this gap, I want to establish a social impact business accelerator in India, eventually replicating its model across the developing world. I’ll leverage my network to recruit informal-sector entrepreneurs and provide them with capital, strategic advice and shared services to establish competitive, scalable enterprises. As a management consultant, I’ve helped Fortune 500 companies solve business problems, but I lack the entrepreneurship, operations and impact investing experience to achieve my goal, particularly in challenging business environments. Simply replicating Western startup accelerator models won’t work. I want each country’s model to be tailored to market-specific norms and challenges. 59 That’s why a Tuck MBA is a crucial next step as I pivot from consulting to social entrepreneurship. In Johannesburg, I’ve seen women hawking goods in the sweltering heat, children perfecting the art of begging and unemployed men loitering in the streets. I listened to Papa speak about empowering the poor, but never quite figured out my role in doing so. My time at Columbia and a Big 3 consulting firm gave me the global perspective, analytical tools and strategic frameworks to begin crafting a plan. Now, I need an immersive environment to really hone it. I need a nurturing, intimate program that – despite its geographic isolation and pristine natural beauty – understands and supports ambitious, global goals. I need the thought partnership and research-driven pedagogy of its top faculty, who would meet me for a latte at Local Bean to help me develop a viable venture. Finally, Tuck’s focus on the ethical considerations that underpin business decisionmaking will help me ensure that the core values of social impact will not erode as my company scales. In emerging markets, where corruption is the norm and the informal sector is by definition unregulated, business owners must rely on their internal ethical compass. How does one function – and thrive – in an environment where bribes are sometimes the only way to get things done? Tuck’s approach will help me develop an unshakeable rudder for navigating tough ethical questions such as these. Combining classes like “Developing Market Entrepreneurship” and “Business Ethics” will teach me to balance the sometimes-conflicting interests of my stakeholders. Post-MBA, I’ll first join an international development organization like Earthaid as a Director. There, I’ll gain hands-on experience working with emerging market entrepreneurs to grow their businesses. From fundraising to program implementation to impact measurement, I’ll gain the insights, skills and network I need to launch my firm. When I envision my legacy, I see myself leveraging my consulting experience, my MBA, a network of like-minded colleagues and a passion for problem-solving to become an advisor and advocate for informal-sector entrepreneurs. With the support of my accelerator, talented entrepreneurs across India will have an opportunity to scale their businesses, in turn employing and empowering others to break the cycle of poverty. I think Papa would be proud.

I have been passionate about chemistry ever since discovering how atoms formed the building blocks of our universe. I am endlessly intrigued by how we could reshape our world by combining basic elements in new ways. This interest led to the biggest commitment I’ve ever made: to improve lives through technological innovations in chemistry. I pursued a PhD. in chemistry at the UC Irvine, focusing on advanced materials for products as diverse as next-generation water balloons and ship propellers with better fuel efficiency. I then joined Howard Hughes Medical Institute to work with the best scientists and engineers in the world, developing materials for heart stents and evaluating 3D printing technologies for artificial organs. There, I saw scientists too focused on advanced technical problems without considering the practicality of their approaches, and realized my commitment meant nothing if it didn’t change the world in concrete ways. That’s when I began exploring new avenues to bring in-lab innovations to market, including replacing expensive, experimental materials in our 3D composites with significantly cheaper commercial fibers. Later, when searching for potential commercial partners for this 3D printed composite, I came across another obstacle: chemical giants like JFO weren’t willing to risk investing in new fields. If I was to change the world through science, I had to overcome corporate inertia. I turned my attention to small businesses with the flexibility and willingness to explore new possibilities, licensing the technology to start-up Beat Technologies. Today, there are still countless research achievements sitting on the shelf, waiting for commercialization. To truly leverage technology to help improve lives, long-term, I’ll 64 establish my own consulting firm, bringing together universities and small and middlescale enterprises (SMEs) to focus on advancing healthcare technologies. I’ll help SMEs explore new avenues to better utilize financial resources and improve operational efficiency, all while providing training services for CEOs working with scientists and doctors. To accomplish this, I need to develop my strategic thinking in the traditional chemistry industry and gain consulting experience bridging technology and business, so short-term, I’ll join the internal consulting team of a reputed chemistry company like JFO or LUM. However, in order to take my commitment to the next level, I still must fill gaps in my corporate strategy and management skills through a SOM MBA. Classes like Managing Teams and Strategic Measurement will provide the business skills to ensure that when the next great innovation in the lab comes to fruition, I’ll be the one to make sure it comes to market. I particularly want to work with Prof. Rosen as his expertise in decision-making and public health will teach me about operations and strategic analysis skills in health care. Then, to put these skills into practice, I’ll work with Prof. Yamada’s team at the Center for Biomedicine, providing my material expertise in plastic selection and prototyping, and market research, distribution strategies, and project management skills gained at SOM. For all of these reasons, Yale is the best place for me to transform my greatest commitment into my greatest achievement.

I plan to devote my career to making my family’s company, Boxer Group, the most innovative green packaging solution provider in the world. I am attracted to the financial and social benefits of the packaging industry, which has ample room and high demand for green and convenient packaging. An increase in living standards and disposable personal income in developing countries has fueled consumption across a wide range of products, resulting in growing packaging demands for the goods sold. Also, green initiatives in developing countries are increasing the demand for green materials. Thus, the global packaging market is expected to reach $1575B with an annual growth rate of 8% by 2020. The sustainable packaging market is projected to reach $640B with a 12% annual growth rate by 2022. As future CEO of my family business, I hope to improve our consumers’ quality of life, reduce packaging waste, and create global economic and environmental savings. A huge portion of plastics and packaging wastes are landfilled or incinerated worldwide, creating environmental issues like water and air pollution. I will focus on green technology by using recycled/green materials such as bio-degradable plastics or compostable corn-based materials, minimizing the raw materials used in each unit, and creating lighter packaging to reduce carbon footprints. I will provide consulting services to help brand owners design and build convenient packaging that suits the modern lifestyle, creating items such as a compact package that can keep food fresh longer. Additionally, the family business is currently focused only on CPG packaging, but I intend to expand it into food packaging as well, another fast-growing market. To position the company for success, I will deepen business partnerships with global consumer product companies such as CPG Corp, and develop new relationships with consumer and cosmetic product firms like Worldwide or Fragrance Mart to provide innovative package design and production capabilities to these brand owners. Through over five years of experience as an auditor, and subsequently, a management consultant, I have built a foundation in client relationship management, team management, and financial analysis. I now need to learn to view a company and industry from a CEO’s perspective, which includes how to build strategic direction, proactively respond to threats of competition, hire talent, manage a workforce, expand a client network, and plan capital investments such as automation. I believe an MBA is the bridge to develop these skills in a way that work experience alone can’t, and I am convinced that Wharton is the best place to complement my experience and goals. Wharton will prepare me for what a family business or entrepreneur can face through access to renowned faculty members like Samuel Lund, who researched financial performance of family firms. Similarly, rigorous courses including Family Business Strategy, Marketing Strategy, and Innovation Management will expand my knowledge around managing a corporation and setting strategic directions for future growth. Outside the classroom, the Family Business Network and Entrepreneurship Center will give me opportunities to network and build strong relationships with entrepreneurially 67 focused students and alumni. Access to esteemed practitioners will give me the chance to get personal coaching from an executive on the strategic and managerial issues that executives face. Through interactions with colleague Ellen Lin (WG ’12), I have learned how Wharton’s alumni connection manifests Wharton’s collaborative culture and entrepreneurial spirit. In discussing how great her experience was, I discovered how Wharton’s unique residential requirement for every student makes the community a lot closer, and that the Global Business Week enables students from the East and West campuses to meet and learn together in a global setting. I am truly excited about how this program will allow me to build a strong network of future business partners, friends, and mentors. On my subsequent campus visit, I enjoyed Prof. Katherine Mock’s Intrapreneurship class, and in speaking with her, I learned about the strengths of Wharton’s business plan competitions. Directly post-MBA, I will join my family business’s senior management and rotate through various functions for 2-3 years to gain management experience across functional areas, and apply my MBA lessons to our future strategic directions and product management. Wharton’s exceptional resources will build upon my experience in banking, knowledge of my family business, and multicultural experience. More than ever, I am now ready to seize this chance.

Fernweh, the German word for a perpetual urge to explore foreign countries and cultures, best describes what drove me to leave the Netherlands at age 14 to pursue my education in the U.S., explore countries such as Japan, Israel, and Indonesia, and start my professional career in Southeast Asia. Through strategy consulting work across all major regional markets at GCPL, volunteering, and diverse travel in the region, Southeast Asia has in many ways become home, inspiring me to make a lasting and meaningful contribution through a social impact career in the region. Over the past three years my work has allowed me to develop a well-rounded consulting skillset and deep appreciation for doing business across the ASEAN region. Just as importantly, living in Indonesia has shaped me as a person. If boardrooms and brainstormings as a consultant have given me part of the toolkit I now seek to expand through Wharton-Lauder, Indonesians have given me the purpose. There’s Larry, the ever-friendly cleaner at GCPL who commutes at four every morning to fund his construction certification and provide his children with a better future. Talkative Kat, who dreams to study in the U.S. one day, left a lasting impression on me during the life and professional skills workshop that my social impact consulting venture, New Vistas, delivered to underprivileged students in Jakarta. Both Larry and Kat, just like countless others I have been fortunate to meet over the past four years, personify the dedication, sacrifice, and passion that inspire me to pursue a career that creates lasting opportunities for young Indonesians. On this path, Lauder will provide three invaluable elements: a deeper understanding of Southeast Asia, insights relevant to my social impact career, and active membership in a community as passionate as I am about making an impact in cultures other than their own. Through Lauder’s South and Southeast Asia Concentration I hope to develop my understanding of the region needed to expand my horizon into the Philippines and Vietnam. Having completed an introductory Tagalog course in Utrecht and experienced Manila during a consulting project, I am convinced that Lauder’s summer language immersion classes will allow me to interact proficiently with Filipino social impact practitioners and embrace professional opportunities at Filipino youth empowerment organisations such as OOFR. Similarly, after hearing how Sadie Forester (MBA/MA’11) and her team analysed tourism-dependent economies in Sardinia through their POP, I look forward to exploring a topic at the intersection of social innovation and youth empowerment as a Lauderite. Outside my Program of Concentration, Lauder will give me the global insights needed to become a more effective social impact leader. As a 17-year-old intern in Ukraine, I first discovered the VoBank, the pioneering Ukrainian microfinance institution founded by Anna Kislova. Seeing how SpaceFund, a leading Indonesian nonprofit I volunteered with in Jakarta, sought to replicate the VoBank model 20 years after its creation made 70 me realise that understanding regions beyond Southeast Asia, particularly Latin America and Africa, will be invaluable for innovative social impact leadership. Given this realisation, I am confident that Advanced Topics in International Studies, relevant courses at the School of Arts and Sciences, and peer-to-peer learning from like-minded students focusing on other regions of the world will offer such opportunities to complement and contextualise my knowledge from my Lauder concentration and Wharton MBA. Beyond the curriculum, the way in which numerous members of the Lauder community, including Juana Cabrera, went out of their way to share their passion for the programme in personal conversations, left me with no doubt that Lauder offers a truly special community. I look forward to becoming an active member of a group in which all, not just some, peers share my passion for other cultures and all alumni believe, as I do, in innovative and market-based approaches to social impact. Having engaged with topics such as the Cultural Revolution, Sukarno’s dictatorship, and the Vietnam War in an academic setting at Utrecht University, and as a curious inhabitant of two Southeast Asian countries, I look forward to adding my own perspectives to Area History or Vivian Harris’s class to further the learning of my peers. Outside the classroom, I hope to leverage my experience from running the study trips programme of UU’s International Relations Club as a member of Lauder’s Culture Quest organising committee. My life has shown me the tremendous value of internationalism and immersion. Knowing that Lauder feels the same way, I cannot imagine a more powerful academic, professional, and personal catalyst to empower me to create lasting impact in Southeast Asia.

My most memorable undergraduate experience at Cornell was Professor Shaw’s potluck dinner. He invited our entire art class so we could learn about each other’s diverse experiences. This openness made me realize not only that Cornell cares about its students, but also that diversity is essential to creative collaborations. That is what I think about when I hear the words impact, community, and Cornell. Since graduating, I have taken these lessons in empathy and compassion and applied them in my professional life through training and mentoring new associates. For instance, at my current company, Delta Inc., I successfully trained 15+ associates, increasing revenue by $512,000+. Now, returning to Johnson to pursue my MBA ahead of pursuing a career in management consulting, I aim to put myself in a position to be nominated for the Johnson Leadership program by being an effective Core Team leader and developing strong relationships with my professors and classmates. Speaking with Julien Durand (’14), I realized Johnson would be the ideal place to pursue my professional interests, management consulting and social impact, thanks to its immersion learning courses and the Consulting Club. Notably, I’ll participate in the Worldwide Sustainability learning immersion and consulting program to learn to make strategic decisions with imperfect data while helping companies implement clean technology and financial sustainability solutions. The knowledge and the analytical skills that I’ll develop there will also provide a powerful toolkit ahead of competing in case competitions, including the annual Capital Case Competition. This will be an excellent opportunity for me to strengthen my team-building skills working in groups. Moreover, what ties everything together is the Consulting Club - a great opportunity for me to exercise leadership and consulting skills while making an impact on local Ithaca businesses. In addition to case competitions and Consulting Club, I hope to start a club of my own. For the past two years, I have practiced mindfulness meditation, and my daily mediation practice has helped me better manage stress and increase my base level of happiness. During the high season at Delta, my colleagues suffered from the stress and 75 pressure that came with high quotas, so I held impromptu, 40-minute meditation sessions to help them feel more relaxed and creative, creating a better work environment. At Cornell, I will start a meditation club so that I can share my experiences with my Johnson classmates in hopes of fostering a more creative, relaxed, and compassionate community. The inclusivity and collaboration of the Cornell community defined my undergraduate experience. Through interactions with the Johnson community, including a class visit and conversations with current Johnson students Aditya Osvald and Jonny Hugo, I believe the same will hold true for my Johnson experience. The program attracts the best people — people who not only excel in their careers, but who are also smart, genuine, and excited to give back. I hope to be among them.

Not only do I see a strong match between my goal of establishing my own investment fund and what Cornell has to offer, but I also see opportunities to have a strong impact in Cornell's community. It became clear to me that Johnson values bridging the gap between theory and practice through conversations with second-year student Darrel Saunders and after listening to Paul Merrick speak in LA. I see an opportunity to strengthen Johnson's capital markets immersion curriculum by introducing students that are interested in fixed-income investing to real-life fixed-income projects, adopting a similar model to the student-managed Cayuga Fund. I learned from Darrel that Cayuga Fund students in the Capital Markets and Asset Management Immersion focus uniquely on equity investing. I believe that it is also 77 important for students to gain real-world experience in fixed-income investing, as the market will be volatile for years to come. I would like to work with the IDC and Dr. Claud Spiros, who leads the immersion program, to build relationships with major New York funds that specialize in fixed-income investing. This will create a symbiotic relationship between firms who need research assistance and students who are seeking work experience. Because Cornell already has strong partnerships with investment firms in New York, I will be able to successfully incorporate this program and further Cornell's leading reputation in immersive learning. The immersion program will allow me to work on real-life projects, while simultaneously learning in the classroom, preparing me to excel at internships and land full-time offers. I found a lot of satisfaction from creating a positive impact at Read LA, and would like to continue this work for a similar literacy outreach program at Cornell. I learned from Darrel that there is no outreach tutoring program at Johnson for adults with disabilities in nearby districts. I researched nonprofits in Ithaca and learned about Independent Ithaca, which partners with the Johnson Board Fellowship. I want to work with Independent Ithaca to help individuals with learning disabilities transition into the workforce. A huge obstacle every nonprofit faces is the need for funding. I wrote grant essays that secured a total of US$500,000 this year and negotiated a happy hour deal with a local bar in LA to donate 30% of tabs for one night to Read LA. Thus, I am confident I can obtain funding for Independent Ithaca through grant writing and by working with the Johnson Board Fellowship to organize fundraisers and rally students to join. I look forward to making an impact by engaging in real-world projects through Immersion Learning and partnering with investment firms in the city to add fixedincome projects to the curriculum. I also view the Johnson Board Fellowship program as an opportunity to create a positive social impact, while bringing together students on campus through a number of lively fundraising events, thus keeping with Johnson's emphasis of practice over theory.

Speaking with current students Andreas Bak and Sophie Costa was the moment I really “got” what Duke means by “Team Fuqua.” I’m committed to making an immediate impact on Fuqua’s student culture and leaving a long-lasting legacy. As someone who is looking to transition into management consulting, my goals at Fuqua are to prepare myself professionally to change careers while making a social impact in the greater Durham community. I plan to participate in the Net Impact club, Consulting club, LatAm Business club, and even start a student karate dojo of my own. At Ensina Brazil, I piloted a successful secondary school program that influenced EB’s strategic vision and led 550 students to academic success. Despite these accomplishments, I couldn’t help but feel that I could do more. I saw countless students drop out of school and move to the city to find work because family pressure for extra income made education impossible. My experience at EB not only taught me that business would have the most potential for social and economic impact, but also that impactful solutions would require synergy between private, public, and nonprofit entities. At Fuqua, I’ll take advantage of the CASE center through the Net Impact Club where I’ll gain knowledge of how the three sectors interact with each other. I’ll also work in this club’s leadership cabinet and coordinate keynote speakers and panelists to the annual conferences. I’m particularly interested in inviting leaders from disruptive education companies focusing on financial inclusion, including EduBubble and Pedagogies Inc. 80 More than just a research center, the Net Impact Club will provide me with opportunities to use my MBA toolkit on socially impactful projects. As a Fuqua on Board fellow, I’ll work with a local Durham nonprofit to provide business consulting services, all while gaining valuable insights into the strategy and operations of a nonprofit. I would love to work with the Carolina Reading Room because I believe in the power of literacy in enabling a capacity for lifelong learning. I would be able to offer my diverse experiences in education and tech while also synthesizing skills learned during my MBA. FOB will also augment my EB experiences by teaching me thoughtful and effective community engagement from a business leader’s perspective, a valuable skill that I’ll need as a leader of a social enterprise. Because Fuqua’s CASE center is the nation’s leading research center for social enterprise and entrepreneurship, I’ll develop the knowledge and skillset to become an impactful global leader. Coming from a nontraditional business background will make it a challenge to break into management consulting, but my conversation with Andreas Bak assured me that the Fuqua Consulting Club has the best career resources to help me achieve my goals, including a strong student-driven culture of reciprocity. Andreas shared how he secured a summer internship at a top consulting firm thanks to the career training he received in his first year, going through an intensive case interview training program. In his second year, he paid it forward, leading teams of first year students, practicing on as many as 8+ cases a week. Andreas’s consulting club experience resonates with me because it is not only the perfect opportunity for me to discipline my mind and challenge my thinking, but also an opportunity for me to train and mentor my peers. I have spent my career training and mentoring new associates and I can’t wait to create my own legacy within Fuqua. In addition to the Net Impact and consulting clubs, I hope to start a student initiative of my own. For the past three years, I have practiced karate and my daily bouts have changed my life, helping me better manage stress and increase my base level of happiness. During the high season at Delta, my colleagues suffered from the stress that came with high quotas, so I held impromptu training sessions to help them. Though the session lasted only 40 minutes, my colleagues felt more relaxed and creative, creating a better work environment. Discussing this interest with Andreas, I learned how I could share this with my peers at the gym, booking a room and inviting peers to engage each other in martial arts. What really ties my passion for Duke together is the life-long relationships that I will build at Fuqua. Through talks with Fuqua alumni at MBA fairs and Fuqua webinars, I’ve learned that it’s the Team Fuqua culture that gives Duke a decided edge over other MBA programs. As someone who was born and raised in LA, I’m looking to get out of my comfort zone while integrating myself into a larger community. Sophie Costas said she achieved this through the LatAm Business Club, where she had 40 fellow students who shared the same interests in Latin American culture and food. Discovering that we both share a love for huitlacoche, she enthusiastically recommended the Flor de Chiapas restaurant for my visit to Durham. 81 As I consider the network, skills, and experiences I need to achieve my long-term career goals, Fuqua is exactly where I want to be because of its world-class academics and strong student-run culture. I believe that my diverse work experiences in education, HR, and sales as well as my teamwork skills and intellectual curiosity will allow me to make a long-lasting legacy at Fuqua. What really resonated most with me were my conversations with Andreas and Sophie, who both reiterated that although the academics and corporate recruiting could be stressful, their peers were always there to help and encourage them. When they graduate, it will be the lifelong relationships they’ve built that will have made Fuqua into a truly transformative experience – and that’s why Fuqua is where I want to be.

My friends call me “the octopus,” because I always have my hands in numerous social impact initiatives and somehow manage to get them involved. Education has been a focus for me since undergrad, when – with no prior experience – I taught low-income Central Valley students in UC Davis’s Farmworker Assistance program. A few years later, I offered to fundraise for the Thinking of the Children Foundation, whose founder had adopted 25 Senegalese orphans and needed to fund their education. Inspired by her story and the children’s potential, I ignored naysayers who thought I was crazy to organize a fundraiser three weeks later on Memorial Day weekend, when San Francisco is essentially a ghost town. At least I was sane enough to know I needed help. I shared the organization’s story within my network and recruited eight fellow hosts. Also responding to my plea, a caterer and a web designer volunteered their services. I motivated (and sometimes pestered) my team with phone-calls, emails and photos of the children to show what we were working for. Together, we launched a social media blitz centered on the children’s profiles, ultimately selling over 400 tickets and raising proceeds to cover the cost of food, household supplies and annual tuition for 15 kids. Suffice it to say, dear cluster-mates, that when you get an email from me, you might soon find yourself posting fundraiser flyers or even travelling to Senegal on a service trip. You may wonder how you got there, but you certainly won’t regret the experience.

I was nervous as I walked up to the base, probably because of the soldiers watching me from armored Strykers with turret machine guns. Given my experience developing logistics software, I’d been tasked with helping the base’s logistics team deploy them during a military exercise. I was used to spending my workdays in an air-conditioned office, but soon found myself working on an ancient laptop, in a sweltering hot tent, in the middle of the desert, surrounded by more soldiers. 87 It immediately became obvious that I hadn’t properly prepared for certain aspects of this trip. Business casual attire? Rookie mistake. Within an hour, my nice clothes were caked in dust. And I was made fun of by several of the soldiers. I was hopelessly unfamiliar with military ranks and insignias – a complex language that seem to order the base like an invisible hand. I even made the mistake of calling a Lieutenant a Lieutenant Colonel (much higher rank!), earning a few more laughs at my expense. In order to do our job, we needed the base’s logistical units to cooperate, even though they were very thinly stretched. It was clear I needed to cultivate some sort of working relationship with them. We had to cultivate a relationship with them before we were able to get their time and assistance. The soldiers were not allowed to leave the base during the exercise, and my team and I would bring in food and soda from the outside world to build better relationships with them. Over the next few days, I adapted to the soldiers’ customs, their colorful language and vocabulary, and even the smell in the tent. At the end of this trip we presented our tools to the Lieutenant Colonel (the actual one!), who was very pleased with our results. As a result, we were asked to repeat this process at other military exercises, and even implement our tools in operational environments. At the start of this trip I was unprepared for the unique culture of the military. Soldiers have their own language and mannerisms, and have a challenging and critical mission. This making you feel like an outsider. Upon a better understanding of how the military works, you saw how this culture was a direct function of that organization’s purpose and mission. Due to the high stakes nature of its activities, the military needs chain of command; and its culture is defined by a certain separation from civilian life – it’s no wonder you felt a certain insider vs. outsider dynamic going on. Once you realize why an organization works the way it does, you learn how to work within it. For starters, I learned that – in an unfamiliar environment – it can’t hurt to ”learn the language” and call ahead for the dress code. But more importantly, it helps to think about the factors that underlie differences in culture. Seldom are people “just different,” and understanding the root of differences can be the key to working through them. Finally, I learned that, even across “cultural” divides, there’s usually a way to find something in common and form the basis for a productive relationship.

My cluster mates will be surprised to learn how much physical pain I can handle. Going through a debilitating hip injury in 2009 was one of the most challenging experiences in my life, but also a rewarding one, thanks to the group of friends who showed me how teamwork really matters. When I tore my hip in a sailing accident in July 2009, I felt as if I’d been ripped in half. Worse, my family couldn’t come to the U.S. to help due to visa issues. So, for over six weeks, I dragged myself on crutches from doctors to physiotherapists, desperately seeking a firm diagnosis and proper treatment. Finally, I was waitlisted for surgery, followed by three months of rigorous rehabilitation exercise before I could get back on my own feet again, literally. Luckily, I was surrounded by generous friends who made up for my family’s absence: Christine, who brought me dinner for two weeks; Harry, who took care of me on surgery day; and Eufemia, who cheered for me during physiotherapy. I couldn’t have done it without them. I learned that teamwork is sometimes literally life and death. At CBS, I’m ready to give back through discussions and team learning in class, and extracurricular activities at the Wine Club, helping my learning team and cluster members in their time of need both academically and, though I wouldn’t recommend it, through physical injury. I’ll take a pass on sailing trips though.

My name, Claude Anaya, symbolizes my cultural heritage and who I am: Born to Mexican parents in France, I was fortunate to grow up with two very different cultures which shaped my world view. I see the world as multi-faceted and full of potential to achieve creative solutions, just like each of these cultures. To celebrate both cultures together, I focus on commonalities such as joint targets, common values, and mutual 93 respect. As a result, my strengths lie in communication, solution-driven thinking, and adaptability to differing environments. People appreciate my sensibility, which comes from me embracing both cultures. My time abroad deepened this worldly sensibility. For example, I spent one of the most influential years of my life in diverse California, where I witnessed how inclusion and synergy are successful. I experienced a school spirit that was built on a creative learning environment, enabled by the contribution of many diverse talents. For example, when I asked teachers how I could contribute as an exchange student, I was invited to share with classmates how WWII was viewed in France and Mexico. This induced a better shared understanding, and “mutual learning” even became the official motto of our graduating class. I see myself as bridge builder between people and cultures, unlocking synergies by carefully listening to everyone and identifying common values that unite people. I always truly enjoyed roles where team play and mediation were crucial and succeeded in leadership positions within various team sports, music and social activities. As founder of the judo club at school and president of the skiing club, I had to organize events along many different schedules. As first violist in a string quartet or as part of orchestral accompaniment, I had to lead my parts, but also pay attention to fellow musicians and mediate between parts to achieve a harmonic performance. Despite being good at handling many things at the same time, I can be guilty of excessive planning, overthinking potential hurdles, and approaching a topic too carefully as I want to account for all possible future problems. For example, French and Spanish have a number of similar words – sometimes I want to use both! As you can imagine, combining both backgrounds can make me struggle with efficient communication. Also, my emails are sometimes too long because of the way I phrase things, and that can cause problems like the recipient not believing my urgency or missing some of my concerns. I realized that pragmatism is needed and started adapting my communication style to be more direct, especially for urgent issues. I want to continue improving myself and constantly learn more about the world so that I can become a better version of myself. I strongly believe that the stimulating environment of the INSEAD MBA will help me to further develop my strengths and help me to reach my full potential.

My first four months at Los Altos Partners were a whirlwind. As I sat down for my firstever performance review, I was naturally apprehensive. Though the two-hour meeting was very positive, one comment stood out to me: “Your supervisors praise your dependability and strong work ethic; now it’s time to take your contributions beyond execution.” I felt that I had made substantive contributions to my teams. As I wondered how my work could be so easily minimized, I began to view some of my past client interactions in a new light. One client glanced at me and announced, “The associates get younger every meeting!” Another client in his 50s consistently referred to me as “Miss Eva.” Various investment managers called me “Darling.” It occurred to me that despite the presence of many impressive and successful women at LAP, being a young woman in the financial community had implications I hadn’t considered. I realized that many of the attributes of which I was proud – my attention to detail, service orientation, and positive attitude – could be construed as administrative when viewed in conjunction with my status as a young woman in a male-centric workplace. At that moment, I made a commitment to make my voice heard in decision-making and, in so doing, to overcome the expectations associated with my gender and age. The first test of my commitment came when the most experienced VP on my largest client left LAP. I was asked to lead the team despite my relative lack of tenure, expected to continue my management responsibilities while also formulating my own investment ideas. To get up to speed as quickly as possible, I consumed as much investment content as I could. I kept a list of new investment managers and spent nights reading due diligence reports, even shifting some of my routine work outside business hours to free up time to attend research meetings. As I became more 103 knowledgeable, I found myself volunteering information at internal meetings more and more often. The culmination of this effort came when I was asked to present a recommendation to a client on a potential healthcare investment. As I walked into the conference room, I heard a familiar voice, “Hello, Miss Eva!” Rather than be unnerved by my apparently permanent nickname, I remembered all the work I had put into this presentation and was filled with confidence. When it was my turn to present, I looked up and saw a group of men looking back. And I went for it. With the benefit of hindsight and 1.5 additional years’ experience, there was nothing unusual about my presentation. I’ve dealt with tougher audiences and received approval for more unorthodox recommendations. However, whenever I glance at that portfolio I note the presence of a particular early-stage fintech investment, my first successful recommendation. It reminds me of the commitment that I made to make my voice heard, to push back against stereotypes, and to believe in my abilities.

As a large black man in 2012, it was still very difficult to hail a cab at 1 a.m. in downtown Boston. Some drivers would turn off their roof light when they saw me, refuse to take me to my destination, or simply speed off. The experience was frustrating and demeaning. Things changed one night when a friend said he was going to use Lyft instead. I had never used a ride-sharing app, but they quickly blew me away: everyone had equal opportunity and access to their services, without prejudice. That night, I realized that technology had the potential to eliminate discriminatory behaviors. New technologies can force people to pick between losing money and holding onto their pre-conceived notions and stereotypes. I want to bring something like this to South Africa, namely a credit scoring app focused on empowering the underbanked population. For many South Africans, a lack of collateral and bank history prevents them from accessing credit from banks, even though many of them are actually creditworthy. The banks simply dismiss anyone 105 they haven’t dealt with before or who doesn’t look particularly wealthy, which is clearly prejudice on their part. If I’m successful in my credit scoring app, it will become difficult for these banks to turn away high scoring borrowers who don’t fit the usual mold. With credit, these underserved people will be able to take control of their future, and invest in things like their homes, their health, and their small businesses, rather than simply living paycheck to paycheck.

I consider myself a citizen of the world, as there is no one country I call home. I was seven when my family moved to Singapore for work, leaving the ancient city of Nanjing behind. In this ex-British Colony, where people preferred strange western teas and drove on the other side of the road, I needed to adapt. I spent months studying English with a tutor. However, by the time school started my communication skills were still not up to par. Although troubled by my inability to communicate, I decided to spend as much time with classmates as possible. When they talked, I tried to integrate the new words I heard into my vocabulary. This effort imbued in me my open-mindedness and appetite to learn from others. When I was 14, my family moved to Argentina, and I needed to start high school. However, a single attempt at speaking Spanish with the Principal sent me packing back to middle school, where my poor Spanish ultimately landed me in a grade with 13- year-olds. I was very frustrated, but overcame this by going to great lengths to learn the new language. Faced with a double barrier of age and language, I found a friend in grammar reference books. Less than a year later, I knew I had succeeded again. My marks were above 81/100, high enough that I could receive the national diploma without needing to take the national exam. The outcome of spending most of my youth listening is that I am shy. I have the sensation of fitting in while also feeling like an outsider. I combated my shyness by approaching life as a play, putting my confident alter-ego under the spotlight. This technique began in Singapore, where I won a speech contest just a week before leaving for Argentina. Having to speak in a community hall loaded with students and judges was both scary and a confidence booster. At university, I also held various public roles including head of the Speech and Debate Club. Even in the finance sector, I get a greater exposure than my peers, perhaps because I am one of the youngest or the only Chinese 107 person. After years of hard work putting myself in these positions, I have grown to enjoy the spotlight. All those years of having to adapt to different cultures instilled a deep need to be surrounded by diversity, whether in languages, cultures, or unfamiliar foods. My partner is Argentine, I am Chinese, and we are considering adopting a child from another continent. I have lived in three countries, China, Singapore, and Argentina, and have visited many others. Powers, Inc. is a multicultural environment, where nobody is exotic, representing more than 20 different nationalities. I am looking for this level of diversity in a school and INSEAD’s “all minorities” mantra is undoubtedly perfect for me.

The Expedition Scholarship is a $25,000 award for one graduating Yale senior to pursue an issue in a global context. As the 2008 Expedition Scholar, I traveled to 14 countries to explore how social business could be a solution to poverty. Over 30 months in South America, I lived in places ranging from slums of Caracas to villages of Bolivia, and worked with organizations ranging from Service Corp to a llama cheese social enterprise. By enabling me to live amongst the poor and understand their attitudes and beliefs, the scholarship redefined how I understand inequality. Ultimately, it has shaped my passion and career toward addressing inequities. I have kept in close contact with several of the scholars and am always amazed by their stories. In August 2011, three years after my travel, I was eager to bring the scholars together, and so organized the first reunion in the scholarship’s 60-year 109 history. Nearly half of the 48 scholars were able to attend the three-day event, for which I created a book summarizing each scholar’s travels. We swapped stories, planned the future of the scholarship, and created ambitious goals: select two scholars annually going forward, grow the endowment by $4 million, and make the reunion annual at Homecoming. For me, having gained so much from the scholarship, I was excited to be able to give back, and since then, continue to do so through serving on the selection committee every year since 2012. I invite you to watch a 2-minute video summarizing the reunion and my role: [YouTube link].

Upon graduating from IIT Delhi, memories flashed through my head: entering a top business program, my cricket team’s hard-won victories, and heated business case competitions. The contrast between a traditional K-12 education and my university experience showed me how India’s one-size-fits-all K-12 curriculum stifled students’ critical thinking and creativity. Determined to improve K-12 schools in India, I launched my career in India’s booming education industry. Post-graduation, as an investment associate at investment fund Saffron Hill, I launched Thistle Academy, two high-end international schools in Delhi, with a total $180m investment. I also led the acquisition of one of India’s largest training institutions, and green-lit investment in an emerging education service provider. These experiences showed me how capital and education led to results, crystalizing my resolve to launch my own private K-12 schools, long-term, leveraging policy reforms that encourage private sector innovation in education. Ahead of this, post-MBA, I’ll accept an offer to return to SH to lead the expansion of their European education sector investments, growing their acquired British schools into a vast network, which will create a variety of choices for Indian students. However, I need advanced leadership skills to direct a UK acquisition team, a strategic vision to guide SH’s expansion, and an entrepreneurial toolkit to launch my own business. To develop my leadership skills at Kellogg, I’ll learn how to build teams, drive negotiations and implement plans through courses like Deal Making. I will also participate in events like the annual Education Innovation Case Competition, before leading the acquisition team for SH. Meanwhile, Professor Wendy Cho’s focus on empirical middle market companies in Growth will provide insights on how to differentiate SH’s products and services during its expansion. 121 Through courses like Launch Prep from Innovation & Entrepreneurship Initiative, I will learn how to drive innovation and growth within SH as an intrapreneur, exploit the market, determine and mitigate risks, and intelligently change India’s education industry. I can’t wait to participate in the Education, engaging in real-time issues with Chicago Public Schools to improve underperformance in a school before launching my own schools. Finally, I’m passionate about Kellogg’s collaborative culture, starting as early as the KWEST Trips recommended by Shardul Gupta (’18) and Niamh O’Conner (’11) at the Mumbai Information Session, and can’t wait to live in one of America’s strongest school district, the great Chicago area. My experience so far has given me a solid foundation that, elevated by a Kellogg MBA education, will make me an impactful leader in India’s education industry.

My proudest moment was when I overcame Widgetron’s entrenched conservatism, breaking away from our direct sales model by launching a Central Asia-based sales agent network for our IoBus IV product line. IoBuses correlate data inputs into compressed indices, but this niche product’s sales were sluggish. In 2014, I discovered our commission scheme offered few incentives to focus on lower-priced products like IoBuses, compared to larger systems. After extensive research, I determined that a localized sales-agent network could target smaller customers, generating new leads thanks to broader coverage and stronger sales incentives, allowing our own salesmen to focus on existing priorities. When I proposed this agent sales model however, Widgetron’s conservative leadership refused, satisfied with our total sales performance. I didn’t give up on this potential growth point however, preparing a business plan over six months and leveraging sales and marketing data to convince executives to test my concept for the launch of IoBuses’s next-generation model. My data proved this product line was in decline and my reasoning highlighted how this new business model could revive IoBus IV sales, winning executive approval. 123 This initiative developed my leadership and teamwork skills, and enabled me to take responsibility for an entire project. Once my agent network was approved, I signed 15 companies with over 80 agents running sales, training them myself while shaping our marketing and strategy. To support my network’s sales, we visited customers together and I designed brochures and managed the circulation of demo systems among potential clients. I was very careful in selecting my agents, taking the time to study their companies’ cultures, management, motivations and backgrounds to ensure a perfect fit for Widgetron’s products. Ultimately, our network delivered excellent results: IoBus sales in the second half of 2016 now sit at $950K, over 8 times 2015’s YTD, with the agent sales channel contributing 73%+ of the total. Thanks to our success in Central Asia, IoBus is now considering a sales agent model across the CIS region. This experience was invaluable to me because it taught me to take initiative, go against the grain, win buy-in and move our business forward through convincing analysis and a bold strategy. When our new data processing rack was on hold, I decided to drive it forward by opening a new potential market, online video distribution, and persuaded a customer to sign a beta-system order which became a strong support and platform of the product’s R&D.

My mother is a musician, my father a painter, and my younger sister an author. My family regarded art, culture, beauty, and relationships as the most important things in the world. Instead of going to the beach, our holidays consisted of visiting museums, cathedrals, and a lot, and I mean LOT, of galleries. This influence shaped me into a sensitive, honest humanitarian, which is in stark contrast to the monetary-oriented nature of my profession. When I was 21, and a junior associate, the first client portfolio I managed was composed of very traditional men from the wealthy ultra-orthodox Jewish community of São Paulo. Almost all of them had conservative views on politics, social issues, and business that couldn’t be more different from my liberal views. To make matters worse, I was assigned the hardest client in the division. He was a middle-aged man whose persnickety nature, narrow-mindedness and temper were famous within the fund. My 127 director told me not to argue with him and to try and forget the fact that he had made his four prior financial advisors cry. My first experience was in his dark, run down office, setting up our online banking platform on his Windows NT operating system. The platform needed updates that the operating system couldn´t handle. After repeatedly trying to fix the problem myself, I sought tech assistance. My client called my boss right in front of me and told him that I was as “weak” as the last ones. I thought to myself “he wants you to lose it, but his own limitations will not affect you” and stayed for a couple of hours until the issue was sorted. This was not the last of his outbursts. One day, tired of him always getting his way, I denied him a preferable rate on an investment and told him to look elsewhere. An analysis I had performed showed that he was on the verge of not being profitable for us anymore because of the rates we gave him. However, he didn’t leave. He finally understood that he was wasn´t going to find better treatment anywhere else. After standing up to him, he was honest with me for the first time, telling me he was only trying to get the best rates possible for his family and that I should always do the same for my own. It became one of the most gratifying working relationships I’ve had, opening many doors and leading to millions of dollars for my young portfolio. I learned that by understanding what clients are after, whether it is returns on their investments, special treatment, or someone to challenge them, all differences can be overcome. I also found that different points of view and challenges will always be present, but if you confront them by being clear-minded and remaining true to yourself, you can face them, surpass them and keep learning from them.

I grew up in Kapotnya, the impoverished neighborhood of Moscow where my family’s business was established. Although we moved to a nicer area by my teenage years, I never forgot what it felt like living there. I thought I understood what it meant to face poverty. However, only 12 years later, as COO of our business, did I learn what living in poverty really meant. When I first assumed control of Operations, we were facing slumping productivity, high turnover, and behavioral issues like tardiness and rude customer service. I thought I could address these problems by imposing sanctions, but in reality, they had little effect in correcting behavior. I tried everything, from training programs to motivational meetings, but their benefits were short-lived. Why couldn’t I reach my employees? I decided to work directly alongside our warehouse and delivery teams. Only then did I finally begin to understand that the issues we were facing were directly linked to their personal difficulties. Our employees were constantly sick, having not seen a doctor or a dentist in years, and struggled to save money, which led to stress. They felt little motivation to dedicate themselves to a job that was barely keeping their heads above water, something I’d never realized. How could I expect them to give 100% when they were pre-occupied with daily survival? When I saw Valentina, one of our best sales representatives, failing to meet her quotas while struggling to treat diabetes through Russia’s abysmal public health system, something the most basic health plan would easily solve, it all clicked. To deliver better service, we needed to be a better company by providing solutions to our workers’ issues before demanding results. I established a rule that all workers who hadn’t been absent would receive a monthly meal package, which motivated timeliness and eased family issues. Then, I institutionalized daily morning gatherings where early workers would get free breakfast, leading to more socializing and motivation. Finally, I implemented health and dental plans for all employees, leading to almost zero absenteeism. I couldn’t believe it when I saw Pavel, a notoriously shy worker, come in with a beaming smile. Turns out he had been ashamed of his teeth and now wanted to show off his new dentures. Subsequently, these benefits, along with others like profit shares, have allowed the company to quadruple productivity, leading to nearly 100% customer satisfaction rates and ~$14.2 million in increased revenue. Most importantly, they made our employees feel like family, working together towards common values and goals. This experience taught me that I can’t expect to relate to everyone from behind a desk. I can’t manage my team of 90+ without knowing their struggles, from faulty equipment to medical issues. I’ve since made a habit of being present on all fronts as a means to discover and address issues that would otherwise be ignored. Ultimately, I learned that 130 mutual care and dedication leads to success, and that being there for our employees means they will be there for us.

This summer, I hiked 300 miles down the coast of Angola with a multicultural team, bringing health awareness and medical consultations to rural villages. The hike was organized by a group of World Aid volunteers and Angolan nurses to address the lack of medical care in rural Angola, and an Italian documentary film crew filmed the journey. I signed up hoping for the adventure of exploring Angola off the beaten path; the coastline would be rugged and beautiful, the work inspiring and meaningful. I had neither backpacked nor slept in a tent before, but I was excited about the challenge. However, a few days into the hike, I already had doubts that I would be able to finish. My ankle was in serious pain. The long distances, rough terrain, and weight of my pack were placing enormous strain on it. Each day it worsened, and I fell further behind the group. I tried to grin and bear it, but my resolve could only get me so far. I am innately a teacher, a mentor, and a healer, but I couldn’t solve my own problem. I’m not accustomed to being someone in need. What do you do when you feel like you’re holding your team back and need support? Something remarkable happened that helped me carry on. One morning, my teammate Mateus, an Angolan organic farmer, saw through the stoic look on my face. He grabbed my bedroll and refused to let me carry it, saying he had more than enough free space in his pack. The next day, Piero, an Italian photographer, took my sleeping bag. On one particularly brutal day when we covered over 20 miles, Abilio, the nurse who diagnosed my ankle, carried my entire pack. Whenever I couldn’t keep up, a team member would hang back with me to keep my spirits up, at times literally pushing me up mountains. When I finally made it to the finish line, the feeling of accomplishment was euphoric, and I had never felt so lifted up by a team. Before this, I was more accustomed to being the leader, clearing the way and giving support to others through my work, as when helping poor women in Louisiana discover business opportunities, or young girls define their career goals. But this hike reminded me that we can all be vulnerable in different situations, and an act of support from a teammate means everything when you’re in need. As I conducted my MBA research, I kept hearing about “Team Fuqua” - an environment where a tight-knit group of students have each other’s backs and work together toward a common goal. When I join “Team Fuqua,” I will be the team player that helps someone 135 else manage their heavy load, whether it’s lending a helping hand during finals, or practicing mock interviews during recruitment season. I will be a bridge to international students adjusting to American life in Durham. I have a knack for really understanding people and their stories, no matter their backgrounds, and this empathy will guide me as I get to know my classmates and we build a strong community during our two years at Duke. After Fuqua, it will guide me as I pursue a meaningful, social impact-focused career, fighting inequality. With a powerful Fuqua network at the ready, I know I will have support in reaching my professional goals, and I will advocate and support my fellow alums. In fact, I’ve already seen how close the network can be. Living Spaces, a Washington nonprofit for whom I previously worked, just hired a consultant who is a Fuqua graduate. It didn’t surprise me at all when I heard where he got his MBA. I suspect that I will consistently run into Fuqua alums while working in the social impact space. While a student at Fuqua, I will organize team-building activities for my section, like the scavenger hunt I planned for 85 volunteers at a training event last month. I will cook jerk chicken for my classmates and teach community calisthenics classes, because who doesn’t need an hour of peace during the madness of recruiting season? I’ll make sure to bring my Nats gear and Angolan tunic along in preparation for a themed Fuqua Friday. I am also excited to join the Expedition Club and put my newfound hiking experience and equipment to use in a team-building environment. In fact, I bet my tent will also get pulled out for Campout. I hope we can make it to the Rockies in the fall – it’s been too long since I’ve scaled proper mountains. I am also very excited that the MBA Games benefit PHP. Last June, I spent four of the most memorable weeks of my life volunteering at the National PHP Conference in South Africa. It was my first time working with special needs kids, and it was an incredible experience. I coached, taught reading, and gave out awards. I hung out with the kids on buses, in the stands, and during meals. Being part of an experience that gave them so much passion and excitement brought me so much joy. I would be thrilled to have the opportunity to work again with PHP and to help fundraise for the cause. Through Fuqua on Board, I may even have the opportunity to sit on the NCPHP Board. Because my motivation to get an MBA comes from my passion for social impact, I am very excited about the many opportunities Fuqua provides for social impact focused students. I want to throw my energy behind BOX and the IMPACT, where I know I will find career support and networking opportunities. I will share my experiences in Angola and also learn from others’ unique backgrounds and strengths. Together, we will work to further Fuqua’s social impact initiatives, especially through the IMPACT roundtable, where I hope to be part of the leadership team. There, I will be able to exchange ideas with like-minded peers and discuss new sustainability practices. Also, Durham Cases will give me the experience and skills to excel in my future career as a social impact consultant. 136 While I am deeply proud of my accomplishments with World Aid, I am not finished. I know that I have to keep on fighting to create a more just and sustainable world. However, I cannot do it alone. I want to become a Leader of Consequence, but I will need my classmates by my side. A strong community is key to any success, something I learned last summer while straining to climb one last dune with an ankle that wouldn’t cooperate, but a team that moved me forward in its stead. As a Fuqua student, I will do my part. I will bring my team-building spirit to my section, my study group, and each classmate I meet. I will be a person that brings people together, whether for a CASE competition, a calisthenics class, or a DC-themed BBQ dinner. I will bring my international exposure to share new perspectives inside and outside the classroom. Finally, I will attack social problems alongside my classmates who are also serious about finding solutions to the world’s most pressing issues.

Raising pigs in Jutland since age 8 taught me many lessons about leadership, which I still carry today. Being responsible for an unruly sty wasn’t easy, but I discovered that pigs were actually cooperative if the farmer took the time to understand each animal’s temperament. Of course, people aren’t pigs, but paying attention to everyone’s personalities helps me engage with my team more effectively. For example, knowing that some people are more amenable to one-on-one meetings leads me to follow up group brainstorming sessions with certain individuals to gain their buy-in. I hope to put these experiences to practice and share them with team members during Leadership Venture expeditions, where I’ll make efforts to better know my classmates, and in other group activities in and outside the classroom. Many of my classmates will work in countries dealing with corruption. I experienced this when I took a stand against bribe-seeking public officials, which hampered my startup in Tbilisi. I intend to discuss this issue with my fellow Wharton Emerging Markets Club officers at the Emerging Markets panels and the speaker series, learning how the private sector should navigate corrupt business environments. I want us all to learn how to deal with such compromising situations. I’ll also leverage the Finance Club, and form a team to represent Wharton (and win!) at the National Finance Competition in Boca Raton. The opportunity to network with the finance giants that sponsor the competition and help them solve problems, like deciding whether to sell assets in a foreign market, will provide participants with 138 exposure to the types of problems they’ll face post-MBA. Also, preparing for the event will be a great way for members to learn new ways to solve industry problems. Finally, my most satisfying contribution as an alumnus of the University of Colorado was being a voice for international students as an advisory board member in the economics program. I worked with board members to bring more companies with work authorization policies that accommodated foreign students to career fairs, improving employment opportunities for international students. I also regularly give seminars to prepare Danish college students for the corporate world. At Wharton, I intend to work with international students by making efforts to tailor certain career service seminars — some of which, like American working dinners, I’d be delighted to present— towards preparing international students for corporate America, especially during recruiting.

I’d like to take this opportunity to explain my average GPA, which does not reflect my true academic abilities. Going from a small town, where I was the brightest student, to competing with 4000 of the best minds at University of Tokyo was a little overwhelming. Moreover, for the first time, I was given so many extracurricular options, from sports to art, and I was so eager to explore. I took up electives besides my core subjects, such as art history and English literature, and performed well. Along with academics, I was actively involved in extracurricular activities and held a number of social positions all four years. In my last year, I also prepared for and passed the OLP Level-3 Exam. As a result, I graduated college with a GPA equivalent of 2.8. In hindsight, I believe I could have struck a better balance between my core academics and extra-curricular activities. However, the extra skills that I learned, such as leadership and time management, helped me more in my professional career. Though I was an average student academically by Japanese standards at graduation, my involvement in diverse campus activities helped me secure one of the highest paying jobs out of 4000 students on day 1 of our placements. My well-rounded profile, energy and ability to handle many things simultaneously appealed to my employer. In my professional life, I have consistently ranked in top 5%, getting promotions well before the stipulated time. In 2012, I was awarded Best Junior Associate from a batch of 60 during Deutsche Bank training in Hong Kong. So far, my academic performance has never posed any hindrance in any of my undertakings, and I believe that my professional success is an indication of my ability to succeed academically in an MBA program. I look forward to finding a better balance between academics and extracurricular activities as an MBA student.

I recognize that the quantitative component of my GMAT score is a weakness. However, I am confident in my ability to handle the first-year quantitative-focused coursework at Kellogg, primarily because of my successful completion of the CFA designation. My success in a highly analytical and quantitative role at Delta Consulting, working alongside the best minds in the industry, is further proof that I will perform at a high level at Kellogg. Finally, my undergraduate transcript indicates an upward trajectory in my GPA from freshman to senior year, as I took courses more directly related to my business major, specifically Strategy, Investing, and Energy Policy.

I grew up in a small Lebanese city bordering Syria and Israel, immersed in a crosscultural environment from a young age. Leaving my hometown to attend university in Paris was another chance to experience cultural differences, from world-class academic art to tasty crepes. Studying in Ithaca, NY, Germany, and Australia for my Ph.D. placed me in truly international environments. I experienced culture shock due to a different physical environment and unfamiliar rules for social interaction. Finally, traveling to 18+ countries and working in international groups with Coordination Corp. and the Plastics Foundation for the past few years has broadened my horizons and improved my cultural awareness. This exposure has honed my ability to collaborate with multicultural groups, a critical ability for achieving success on a global scale. For instance, when I worked to improve an extruder process with a team from India, the UAE, and Saudi Arabia, I matched others’ paces to put everyone at ease, and leveraged my analytical skills to get results in tough situations. Because of this, I’m particularly attracted to the diverse culture of the Oxford MBA program. I cannot wait to learn about U.K. culture, study various business norms, and gain exposure to East Asian customs while sharing my insights about Lebanese culture and my international experience with the Oxford community. The amazingly diverse cultures present in Saïd business school will further shape my international perspective, enabling me to address world-scale challenges.

I would like to take an opportunity to explain why I chose to transition from math to entrepreneurship. My love for math comes from my family. My father is a mathematician who trained at Caltech, and I grew up reading his papers: my world consisted of number theory and quantum math. This love led me to MIT and then to Caltech to conduct world-leading research in advanced mathematics. However, working on purely theoretical matters in the protective bubble of a math course, I realized my impact on the world remained limited. I had to make a difficult choice: on one hand, I was truly absorbed in my work, but on the other, I couldn’t ignore the real-world issues facing humanity, such as toxic pollution and global warming. I understood that my knowledge of science could help California by being put towards developing clean energy technology, and I chose to research wind physics at Caltech’s Renewable Energy lab. Learning how the wind power business cut down on costs and deployed windmills around the world in the past 15 years, I realized that a technological breakthrough in the lab was just the beginning of the commercialization process towards a real-world, economically viable solution. I contributed my science skillset to research wind policy at the California Air Resources Board and volunteered for energy industry events, such as the Sacramento Energy Assembly. I was able to connect with political and industry leaders, including members of CARB, the Governor of California, and the CEO of Swept, who offered me a position within a group of elite entrepreneurs dedicated to commercializing disruptive energy technologies. Again, I faced a choice: continue on my academic path or take a risk to increase my impact. I chose the risk, joining Swept. As a beginner in the business world, I learned from my colleagues and fellow entrepreneurs, all while contributing my unique scientific skillset to the M&A process. In this challenging startup environment, my capability has grown from technology validation to business development, product development, and leading due diligence, allowing me to play a versatile role in the management team. My transition from mathematician to entrepreneur allowed me to dream bigger, and I am still hungry for more. I aspire to start my own business to commercialize energy 149 technologies, because I know there are more hidden gems in labs in need of great business plans to have a greater influence in the world. This dream requires me to become a dedicated entrepreneur, an open-minded CEO, and an experienced leader. A rigorous MBA education is the best catalyst to put me on this path. Auditing an Innovation class and speaking with Phillip Milton at Booth, I am deeply attracted to the collaborative learning experience and enthusiastic peers. This is why I want to pursue a Booth MBA, a more senior role at Swept, and, ultimately, my own company.

This year, I’ve enhanced my candidacy in two capacities. Following my promotion in August, I’ve led newly formed deal teams, learning to build on individuals’ strengths and train them to reach optimal performance. I’ve also deepened my understanding of corporate governance by helping Readers-R-Us, an NGO dear to my heart, restructure their Board of Directors. These two experiences facilitated my development as a leader. Notably, I led a team of eight to assist with K5 Investments’ divestiture of Logistical Dynamics. This was a complex transaction, and I led a relatively inexperienced Bridgewater team and a Logistical Dynamics management team with little M&A exposure. After determining everyone’s strengths, I continually reviewed their work, delivering constructive feedback. This was especially important for Carol, a new addition with a financial background who struggled to understand how certain items impacted a transaction. Previously, I would have taken on more difficult tasks myself, but instead, I walked her through the analyses, gaining a more knowledgeable, independent team. When Carol was noted as a high performer in her mid-year review, I was delighted and proud. I then leveraged this experience at Readers-R-Us, a 4 million-dollar non-profit managed by full-time professionals with a strategic vision set by students at NYU. As a former President of the board, I was contacted by the current director to restructure the board. There had been high levels of student turnover driven by an inadequate understanding of operations and low accountability. The director and I worked together to implement a restructuring plan, which included a required course for students interested in serving and a new committee for selecting participants. This experience emphasized the impact that a board has on driving the success of an organization. Ultimately, I learned that we needed an engaged board to sustain success and following our restructuring work, Readers-R-Us developed a structure that has improved the organization’s trajectory. My long-term goal to work at a VC hasn’t changed and my experiences this year have better prepared me to succeed in this role. Readers-R-Us’s restructuring provides a model to improve organizations and position them for success. Moreover, working in 153 M&A has strengthened my capabilities as a leader and mentor, preparing me to develop my own deal teams. My short-term goals have also remained the same. Post-MBA, I will pursue M&A roles at a major investment bank. While at K5I, I learned the nuances of asset valuation, but wasn’t exposed to selling or organizational strategy. As a banker, I will master these skills while creating sound investment strategies and positioning assets to potential buyers. Bankers are exposed to all aspects of M&A and are able to sync a firm’s strategy to global markets. Columbia combines the core of finance with a focus on creativity and entrepreneurship, teaching how to attack problems using novel methods in its advanced investing electives. This environment will prepare me to transition into an investment banking role, and ultimately become a VC.

Since my application last year, I have grown more confident in my goals, my leadership experiences and achievements to date, and motivations for an MBA. About nine months ago, I accepted an internal offer from Global Developments and relocated to Hong Kong in January. I started as the lead electrical engineer on an advanced manufacturing facility and managed a full-time team for the first time during the detailed design phase. My relocation to Hong Kong has shown me the differences in work cultures and industry norms between European and East Asian geographies. This added dimension will provide a unique perspective in class discussions and I am eager to share the same. I have reflected upon my experiences to date with the aim to reassess my original decision to pursue an MBA. On face-value, my long-term career aspirations haven’t changed, but my Hong Kong work experience has given me greater insight into the challenges being faced by large urban cities and the vital role my industry would play in the future. I feel fresh impetus in working towards my goals and am certain an MBA is the right next step towards achieving them. 155 I realised that I owe my growth to my support system and wanted to pay it forward. Hence, I have been volunteering as a career mentor at Outreach HK since late October. I mentor five recently unemployed workers transitioning into more technical roles with both a telephone contractor and a marketing firm. I now have a better understanding of my leadership strengths, such as my compassion, and will certainly look to actively mentor in Evanston. Last year, during my visit to Evanston in August, I witnessed the vibrant Kellogg and wider Evanston community first-hand. From sitting in an interesting lecture by Prof. Madeline Nyborg on Marketing, to seeing the Jacob Centre abuzz during lunchtime, I saw myself at Kellogg. My ongoing correspondence with a current student, Heidi Kroft K’18, and attendance at a Kellogg ambassador event in Hong Kong, has made me even more committed to attending Kellogg this year.

Shortly after applying to Tuck last year, I left my job at ARP, before an upcoming promotion, and joined Gerry’s Cutlery, my family business. I took on this role because, to transform Gerry’s Cutlery into the U.K.’s leading silverware retail chain, I knew I needed to better understand business strategy, operations, and inventory and supplychain management, regardless of my admission result. Although I was disappointed about not being admitted to Tuck, my top choice, I was fortunate to get direct feedback from the adcom, encouraging me to reapply this year. This feedback reaffirmed my decision to gain relevant leadership experience through my family business, ahead of contributing to Tuck’s classroom. My first move was to attain Platinum-Level certifications from the Royal Silverware Society. I can now appraise cutlery, understand industry trends and confidently communicate with industry experts. This foundation helped me negotiate with reputable manufacturers to update our store’s inventory and meet a growing demand. I 157 also launched a consumer awareness program for our tested, boutique cutlery, and trained our sales team to improve customer service. I further enhanced my leadership and interpersonal skills by advancing For A, an NGO I started, to help local non-profit organizations through fundraising, campaigning and marketing. Notably, since my previous application, we’ve developed a School Choice Program, promoting private school education across the U.K. There I formed a team of 9 dedicated to conducting extensive research on bond-free scholarships for underprivileged children, so they could attend low-cost private schools. Drafting multiple proposals, we created a thorough report that detailed our campaign’s rationale and objectives, budget-planning over 2 years, and a list of potential corporate and individual donors. Building this robust plan improved my analytical and strategic planning skills and gave me the opportunity to team up with people from different professional backgrounds, and leverage their ideas to complete the project. Whether working through case studies and group projects or leading the Entrepreneurship and Retail Clubs, I’ll now be better prepared to contribute to Tuck’s collaborative culture. I’ve learned more about Tuck through Tuck Connections, speaking with Celia Wells, whose long-term goals of growing her family business resemble mine. She outlined that courses like Decision Science by Paulina Underwood, Strategic Brand Management by Philip Han, and case preparations at Tuck, would help me achieve my career objectives. Also, at the recent Manchester Tuck reception, I was excited to learn about Stephen Crossly and Katie Pollock, founders of Spindle, from Oliver Miller (’72). He mentioned that, in addition to courses like Introduction to Entrepreneurship and Advanced Entrepreneurship, Stephen and Katie benefitted from their relationships with faculty and the Tuck community when launching a sustainable venture, reaffirming my interest in the program. Tuck remains my first and best choice, and I am confident that my activities over the past year will help me enrich the Tuck community.

I admire a lot about Francis Morgan: his great legacy to the business world, his philanthropic way of thinking, and mostly his never-failing commitment towards Colorado. When his father died, he was only 31 but he fiercely took control of the family beer business and grew it into a real empire. Nowadays, Francis manages the conglomerate with a great number of investments in Colorado companies and has become the richest person in the state. Francis was preparing himself by working at DBR Partners - a London-based investment bank – when his father passed away. Nevertheless, he did not hesitate and jumped into the beer company that belonged to the Morgan group while gradually earning participation in all the firms. He gave a direction to the family business by focusing the holding in eight strategic sectors. Now, his actions have given results and the holding creates value all over America. I have heard about Francis Morgan and his accomplishments my whole life so when my family’s farm started to fail; I took him as a role model and encouraged by the efforts he made in his family business, I decided to 162 help mine. He inspired me to start my career in the family business and to take risks and important decisions as he did. Furthermore, Francis might be living in London and having an international career, he never stopped believing in Colorado’s great potential – as I do. He is an example to me for he has concentrated its investments towards Colorado in very diverse sectors in order to generate long-term value and is continuously raising capital towards Colorado. My professional goal drives in the same direction since I want to structure projects to generate long-term impact not only for Colorado but also for the investors, that as I do, believe in Colorado’s opportunities. But Francis’s contribution does not end there! He is a leading member of Protect the Rockies and The Sierra Club, organizations willing to make an impact in Colorado’s business development and protect biodiversity and natural environments worldwide. I am a strong believer that projects should be valued not only for their economic achievements but also for the impact they make; at my scale, working at Sigma Capital, I stand up for the same idea as Francis.

I’ve learned more in my two years in New York City than in the rest of my life beforehand. I’ve biked my fastest races thanks to BikeNYC, learned scores about classical music at the NY Classics Exchange, and absorbed knowledge of the consulting world by building a start-up with SFCG alumni. It’s difficult for me to imagine the hyperspeed of personal and professional growth that would be unlocked by combining the resources of one of the world’s top business schools with the abundant field of opportunity that is New York City. I would take advantage of being at the very center of business by participating in Columbia’s education immersion class, completing a schoolyear internship at an NYC education company, and leveraging my local network of professionals. Given my goal of entering a leading education consulting practice, my top priority would be taking former Apple Consulting CEO Kylie Ferris’ management consulting immersion class. Professor Ferris’s forward-thinking leadership style and stewardship of Apple Digital would offer an eminent perspective on where the industry is going and which approaches (such as digital capabilities) are most likely to succeed. The immersion class’s access to education employers outside of the recruiting process would also provide a low-pressure means of meeting firms and exploring which would be the best fit for my objectives. Every top education consulting firm has a location in Columbia’s backyard, and I hope to visit Chalk Smear, Paper Airplane, and GradePass. Columbia’s unique positioning in New York City would also allow me to have a school year internship in the education sector. Columbia has a track record of internship placements with innovative companies in the city such as edu.edu, The Education Cooperative, Khan Academy, and Glass Board. Experience at an education company, paired with a summer education consulting internship, would align hands-on observation with the consulting framework necessary to understand what causes cutting-edge edtech firms to stand out. This would make me more credible as a consultant to schools who are undertaking digital transformations. 166 Finally, access to talented local professionals will accelerate my learning during business school and beyond. My time in New York City has made me quite comfortable reaching out to learn from this city’s highly accomplished residents. I’ve enlisted former C-level executives to help with client projects, interviewed start-up founders about their business challenges for an SFCG proposal, and attended regular NYC Education Meetups. My goal is to build connections in education consulting, and Columbia is the perfect match with a network of over 600 CBS alumni per LinkedIn who have worked for the Top 10 largest edtech companies in the New York metro area alone. I love that Columbia encourages “coffee chats,” which I would take advantage of at key points in my career to learn from those who have been there before. The fact that prior Columbia alumni have pioneered the path and made their mark in almost every part of New York City is an incredible source of inspiration and strength.

In New York, my dream job at Hylactor & Co. is a cab ride away, my next boss may be teaching one of my classes, and my favorite athlete, Paul Ball, will be playing baseball in front of my eyes at Yankee Stadium. It is the ideal location, both physically and intellectually, with unmatched opportunities: school-year internships in local funds, instant access to investment management professionals, and the chance to hear from the greatest investors and leaders around the world. The opportunity to do school-year internships in local PE funds is a great advantage to pursuing an MBA in New York. I can refine my research skills, improve my thought process through discussion with portfolio managers, and demonstrate passion for investing and thus differentiate myself in future interviews. I can leverage my equity research experience and knowledge of African companies to add value to research in 168 funds like Hardhat Investments and Cold North Management, which invest in emerging markets’ stocks. When I engaged with Laureline Aveline (’13), a CBS alum and ex-colleague at BR, to learn more about CBS, she regarded her internship at Cold North, where she researched U.S.-listed Nigerian companies, as an important stepping stone to her full-time position at Hylactor. The Columbia Student Investment Management Association (CSIMA) will connect my interest in investment management with the vast resources in New York. I will closely watch in-semester internship opportunities forwarded from CSIMA’s industry connections and seize the opportunity to hear from prominent investors during the Annual CSIMA Conference, where I can learn about global value investing from Mark Michaels and how to avoid the common psychological pitfalls in investing from Sarah Foote, all of which will make me a better investor. The New York location also means instant access to PE professionals. This could mean networking opportunities through company visits, firm luncheons and volunteer opportunities in events like the PE in PJs Breakfast. Moreover, I can hear from practitioners in Investment Association events, where students pitch ideas to portfolio managers and analysts from local funds. Their constructive feedback on the strength of the idea, the scope and depth of research is essential in the “sharpening process” of my pitch and will hone my candidacy for a PE career. New York will also allow me to learn from industry and world leaders that come to speak in Columbia. I can learn the leadership skills required for PE from Delilah Krum, Chairwoman of Starship Capital, and Kelly Fitz, President of Sandstone, in the Leadership Series. I can also learn different perspectives, both Western and African, on Nigeria's business practices from business leaders and policymakers in the Columbia Africa Forum. Imagine one day, during which I could hear from Kelly Fitz, visit JP Morgan and ask a question to its CEO Jamie Dimon, take in Avenue Q, and visit the Museum of American Folk Art, all within 24 hours. This could happen, and could only happen, in New York, the very center of business.

I aspire to make philanthropy a regular part of a corporation’s activities by serving as a corporate philanthropy leader in the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) department in a Fortune 100 corporation in Russia. My most important value is to help and to share, which I learned from my father who sponsored 40 kids in a poverty-stricken arctic village. This principle drives my personal and professional focus. When I first worked at Baltic Insurance as an executive assistant, I sensed charitable behavior wasn’t commonly accepted. Most corporations channeled their charitable donations as a means to build relationships with the government. After I came to the U.S., I experienced the mature philanthropic mechanisms in the U.S. by working as a consultant in the Washington state government. The experience inspired me to let Russia have their own philanthropy mechanism to drive Russia’s awareness and concern. Finally, I saw how corporate philanthropy worked at Danske Bank, which confirmed my resolve to be a corporate philanthropy leader. The Sustainability track at Yale School of Management contains the best components to nurture future executives to impact both business and society. During my interactions with Ellen Fost and EMBA alumnus Harold Sanders, (’13), they supported my application process. I participated in the Yale Charity Network, where I had a deep conversation with EMBA alumnus Selena Venegas (’08) about my selection of the Sustainability track. I was deeply inspired by how wonderful the student life could be and how much advanced knowledge I will learn throughout the EMBA program. The Practicum is very attractive to me as well. Interacting with business leaders in different fields could help me to think broadly, which could help me wisely attract and engage with new corporate and non-profit partners. The exclusive core course, Designing and Leading Organizations, can guide me to establish partnerships between non-profits and for-profits, identify the risk to corporate philanthropy operations going forward, and address solutions for a sustainable future. The course Business Ethics Meets Behavioral Economics can equip me to overcome limitations and address unethical behaviors in Russian corporations. I have been the Seattle Director of Baltic View, a media organization in Russia with 450,000 followers, since 2012. I lead professional networking forums regarding investing in the U.S. During the experience, I strongly felt that there are many opportunities to connect business and society, which I will explore at Yale. Yale’s EMBA program connects socially responsible corporations and individuals. For example, two thirds of Yale alumni in non-profits, 200,000 people, have participated in philanthropy. The Yale-Russia Chamber connects Russian students and scholars. I could greatly leverage these resources to make an impact on corporations and individuals, to enlighten philanthropy on a corporate level and beyond. With Yale’s unique assets, I can continue to leverage my professional activities in Danske Bank to maintain a solid foundation across different functions, and accelerate to be a CSR leader.

On Friday June 9, 2013 I received a call from the human resources department at my employer, InterCorp. I was a little nervous as I sat down with the HR representative, but she described how, in my first six months with the company, I had passed difficult certificate exams, closed a new transaction with my team, and volunteered to build a house in Louisiana for the company’s CSR day. She just wanted my permission to use a testimonial from me in Intercrop’s 2013 Semi- Annual Report. I have been multitasking since my sophomore year in college, when I held three school-year internships. Today I run a $1.3m revenue-generating business while working a fulltime job. I deeply believe that we make time for the things we want. Therefore, I am confident that I will be able to allocate my time efficiently while working towards an EMBA. The secret to my efficiency is the idea that 20% of the invested input is responsible for 80% of the results obtained. As such, I have a weekly to-do list and every day I assess and complete the most important 20% of my to-do list. I also allocate blocks of my day to different aspects of my life, including running my business, my fulltime job, volunteering, my church’s choir and my personal life. Next year would be the optimal time for me to start an MBA because my workload with my personal company is winding down. My original motivation in starting the company was to ensure that my mother had a job and my parents had health insurance. But nine years later, my mother has secured a fulltime job as an in-house accountant with one of our largest customers, Federal Union. As a result, my most valuable employee will be leaving to one of my largest clients—and I am extremely happy for them both. The EMBA will immediately give me applicable knowledge at this pivotal moment, as I decide whether to wind down the business, rebrand the company as a profit-sharing business plan or do something else with the company. The EMBA will also make me a significantly stronger VP at InterCorp. When I sat in on Professor Gordon Levine’s Valuation at Columbia in January 2017, I learned that the template that I have been using to analyze public companies is outdated. There may be 175 a better way to look at assets: While banks prefer banking clients with more collateral, maintaining this can be unsustainable for a company with the slightest downturn of a market. Insights like these will take my finance skills to the next level. I am confident I will be able to handle all the work of the MBA, and excited about the challenges I will face. I thrive on challenges—they are the steps of growth.

As an investment professional from San Francisco, I never imagined I’d help a Guatemalan immigrant transition from a job as a Wal-Mart cashier to a highly paid IT expert. But that was before I volunteered with Mission Partners, which helps disadvantaged individuals overcome employment barriers to realize their career potential. As a mentor in 2014, I faced the challenge of equipping my trainee, Esmerelda, with the skills necessary to obtain her desired job. Esmerelda held an engineering degree from a Mexican university and was an accomplished IT professional there before immigrating to the US, but she’d been unable to secure an IT job here. During the first of our 20+ in-person meetings, it became clear that she needed help clearly conveying her impressive background to IT recruiters; her resume was poorly formatted, and her cover letter lacked clarity. I walked Esmerelda through examples of effective resumes and cover letters, equipping her with the knowledge to transform her documents into articulate representations of her skills. At a subsequent meeting, we worked on her e-mail etiquette to professionalize her introductory notes so that she’d make more favorable first impressions. Because Esmerelda did not speak English with confidence, she was apprehensive about job interviews and networking events. I knew that practice would be important for her, but I was concerned that my own lack of IT knowledge would inadequately prepare her for technically-oriented conversations. Therefore, I sought the assistance of three other MP mentors who were IT professionals to help us develop an “elevator pitch” for Esmerelda to use at networking events and conduct mock interviews comprised of IT questions. It was a collaborative process through which we provided her with constructive feedback that she could use during actual interviews and events. At a networking event several weeks later, Esmerelda utilized the skills that we worked on together to secure an interview and obtain a full-time IT job. 177 Through my experience with Esmerelda, I developed an appreciation for how difficult it can be for highly-skilled immigrants to secure strong jobs in the US and also for how impactful mentorship can be to help one achieve her goals. Mentoring Esmerelda helped me realize that I’m adept at relating to people with different backgrounds than my own, and that I’m able to use my personal experiences to earn their trust. Although I don’t work in IT, I proved to Esmerelda that my understanding of the US job-search process would help position her for an IT job. As an introspective person, I recognized my own shortcomings and was unafraid to ask mentors with IT experience for assistance. Through teamwork and utilizing our collective experiences, we equipped Esmerelda with the skills to succeed. My ability to connect with people different than me will serve me well in a collaborative environment like Tuck’s, where I’ll help peers from diverse backgrounds come together to successfully execute projects and assignments. Tackling classroom and business issues alongside my Tuck peers will serve as a strong foundation for leading teams and organizations throughout my career.

Dear Admissions Committee, I am grateful for this opportunity to prove myself to gain acceptance into Kellogg’s fulltime MBA class of 2018. Kellogg is by far my number one choice and is the school I will attend if accepted over my other offers. Over the last few weeks, I have reviewed my application with deep thought and wish to provide additional insights into who I am and why I believe I am a perfect fit at Kellogg, which is the best place for me to reach my goals. Since submitting my application, I have had the opportunity to interact with many more Kellogg alumni, Harriet Williams (MBA ’98), Kevin Shore (MBA ’08), Pauline Miller (MBA ’02), Louis Craig (MBA ’11) and Yoanna Robinson (MBA ’81). Interacting with them has further reinforced my desire to attend Kellogg because of its community. Listening to stories from Harriet and Kevin about quest trips, group assignments and student initiatives, has only reinforced the notion of how Kellogg’s invigorating community is invested in leveraging each other’s strengths to enable all around success. Personally, every single alumnus and student I reached out to was very approachable and forthcoming in sharing their experiences at Kellogg. It is a humbling experience to see them commit their time and effort to ensure my success, a prospective candidate and through my discussions, I feel like I am already a part of this prestigious community. 184 As I continue interacting with Kellogg alumni, my desire to join Kellogg grows daily. As such I have decided to travel to Evanston to visit the campus during the last week of January. I believe my progress at work has also made my candidacy stronger. Professionally, at Techno Zero, I am daily gaining ever more business and leadership experience. After my team’s success with modernizing Techno Zero’s B2B integration platform for which we received a Superlative Team Award, my leadership team has recently asked me to lead a cross-business geo-dispersed team of 38 full-time employees to transition TZ’s entire Sales system to the cloud. As this will be the first time where I will be directly leading a team having members across organizations, I will develop my negotiation skills and learn to incorporate organizational priorities to align the leadership as well as the team to a common objective. This project also involves integrating TZ’s Sales streams amounting to $400 million to our platform and transitioning all operational aspects of their business; which will provide me exposure to acquisitions and mergers, and its impact on businesses and customers. I am travelling to Omaha within the next quarter to present the project roadmap to 30 business leaders including the General Manager and to set up the global team. One thing that has been reinforced with this new opportunity is that to lead strategic projects like this, not only do I need to complement my strong technical foundation with an extensive knowledge of business fundamentals, but also learn tools to understand the impact of people, change and strategic negotiations. Kellogg’s Leadership and Corporations courses will prepare me to deal with the business leaders and their concerns more effectively and grow into one myself. At TZ, I have seen very successful tech people stagnate due to their lack of holistic understanding of business and the nitty-gritty of globalization. With the guidance from mentors and introspection, I realize that what I need is to expand my knowledge and leadership beyond the tech industry and Kellogg’s diverse community and opportunities is the perfect setting to address these deficiencies in myself. I need to absorb new perspectives like structuring organizations to help them achieve performance objectives and learn tools to deal with strategic uncertainty in order to succeed in my goal of being a leader who drives digital transformation. I believe that spending the next two years of my life at Kellogg interacting with some of the sharpest brains from various fields will help inculcate a diversity in my thought process that will help me gain experience in various roles; a skill vital for any successful leader. I also learnt about the growing technology recruitment focus at Kellogg and hope to enable my classmates to pursue technology opportunities by leveraging my immense network at Techno Zero through the speaker series as well as career treks while leading the High-Tech Club. On the entrepreneurial front, I have fast-tracked Meal Deals on Wheels to 25 trucks and also diversified our offerings by launching separate trucks for a liquor service, Barkeep!. My limited exposure to business fundamentals helped me decide and create a 185 separate brand and positioning for Barkeep!. The next step is to create a presence and premium brand in leading distribution markets. This continued entrepreneurial experience hones by business acumen, and gives me insight to how business happens on the “street level,” contributing to my work at TZ as well. Insights from Kellogg’s distinguished Marketing faculty as well as the Center for Market Leadership will help me achieve this objective. As an alumnus, I wish to continue to give back what the current students and alumni have provided, continue my association with Kellogg by providing opportunities to the graduating students and by being an active proponent of the “We Will. The Campaign for Northwestern” to help the university meet its goals. I will also actively leverage the Northwestern Alumni Association (NAA) opportunities to advance my career. Kellogg will deliver everything I need: rigorous academics, engaged community, international reach; enabling me to transition from being a “tech guy” to one of the best leaders in TZ. I can’t wait to visit the campus, and hope to become a member of the prestigious Kellogg graduating class of 2018.

Thank you very much for the feedback on my application to join the Tuck Class of 2018. I appreciate the school’s transparency and candor at such an important stage in my career. I want to take this opportunity to reiterate my strong interest in the program and provide you with an update on two significant work accomplishments that have occurred since my application. On one of the 20 portfolio companies I manage, my firm removed a Junior Partner from the team to give me an opportunity to take on more responsibility as a Junior Vice President. I am staffed with just a Senior Partner, solely responsible for refinancing the company’s $80M debt structure—a first in both my career and the recent history of the firm. The portfolio company is shifting its business strategy from produce to meats and requires significant investment in people (90+ new hires) and infrastructure ($6 million in IT hardware and systems), which the incumbent lenders were unwilling to support. Completing this refinancing in an expeditious manner was particularly important because it allowed the company to spur investment in its growth areas and alleviated an upcoming covenant breach with the incumbent lenders. I modeled multiple financial structures from potential new lenders, presented to the board, negotiated terms with the lenders, supported the company’s management team during confirmatory diligence, and managed an analyst from a co-investor (another first for a VP at my fund). In the end, I successfully executed this transaction ahead of schedule, on favorable terms, at minimal costs, and without assistance of any other senior professional. This experience provides me with a foundation from which to lead more projects of a similar nature in my future Quebec-focused venture capital fund. 187 Another recent achievement was performing a $10M equity dividend at a portfolio company, which returned nearly all of the fund’s initial $5M investment. This was the first dividend in my firm’s 28-year history—we usually execute a full sale of the company, as we typically prefer not to add additional debt without a resulting add-on acquisition. Due to my success refinancing the company described in the prior paragraph, I was solely responsible for negotiating terms and legal documents with the existing bank and modeling complicated return calculations for investors in the company and the fund. During this time, my firm also hired a new Director of Operations at the portfolio company, so I had to take an even more pronounced operational role to complete this dividend. My firm originally tasked me with achieving a $2.5M dividend, equal to half of the investment in the company, but I was successful at negotiating this number to $10M by convincing the incumbent lenders of the company’s growth prospects and leverage profile. This experience not only honed my negotiation skills but also provided me with tangible examples to share in the Tuck classroom with students pursuing careers in investment banking or private equity. These two recent accomplishments further enhance my ability to achieve my longterm goal of investing in and revitalizing Quebec. I was given the opportunity to lead negotiations with lenders and counsel for the first time, important practice for performing these tasks in the future at my own venture capital fund. Additionally, I made business decisions that balanced between earning a financial return and supporting a company’s growth, including job creation for more than 90 employees. These new leadership experiences highlight intricacies that are required of a Venture Capitalist and traits I look to further strengthen by attending Tuck. If there is anything else you need from me as you continue to evaluate my application, please let me know. I would be honored to have the opportunity to join the Class of 2019 and look forward to contributing to campus life.

ThE ALArm cLocK IS, To mANY high school students, a wailing monstrosity whose purpose is to torture all who are sleep-deprived. Those who believe this are misguided, and are simply viewing the situation from a twisted perspective. For when these imprudent early-risers blearily rub their eyes each morning, and search in vain for whatever is making that earsplitting noise, they are, without a doubt, annoyed. Why? It isn’t because the only thing they desire is to sleep a few extra hours, as many would presume. no, these kids are groggy and irritable because they are waking up to what they think will be another horribly boring day of school. If one of these foolish Sallys or Joes were, say, sleeping comfortably on a Saturday morning, I could certainly see something different happening. A beautiful breakfast of tantalizing vittles—eggs, hash browns, and the like—would be ready and waiting for them on their kitchen tables. But the scrumptious delight to outshine them all would be a slab of bacon, piled proudly for the taking. It 22   would be that wafting, wondrous bacon smell that would draw dear, sweet Sally abruptly from her slumber—long before an alarm clock has the chance to pierce the air. Oh, bacon: what a marvelous, glorious thing! I live for those heartstoppingly good strips of succulence, so crispy and crunchy, so packed with perfection. The thought of having a plate of bacon every day, perhaps every school day, sends me into sheer waves of ecstasy! To be sure, many others would also wax poetic about this lovely breakfast food. But precious few would share this same zeal for learning. I, however, can smugly decree that I do regard both very highly. I brightly waken every morning to the mellifluous joy that sounds from my alarm clock, a huge smile plastered on my face, and the yearning to learn in my heart. When I board my school bus Monday through Friday, it is still pitch black outside. Busmates will groan about how even the day has not yet dragged itself out of bed; I only chuckle through their thirty-minute rant fest as we chug down the freeway. Opting to be part of a faraway Magnet school, after all, has its benefits. My peers may still not look forward to waking up earlier, but when we are all together in a classroom, we take on the “bacon mentality.” I have the opportunity to choose from a wealth of diverse classes, and love arriving to school each day with the prospect of having a new Spanish History lesson—taught to me in Spanish, for a change. Teachers, driven by the enthusiasm of their Magnet students, are inspired to create new classes for advanced students, including those who have completed AP Spanish Literature and are still eager to learn more, or those who want to learn about a specific aspect of a subject—we now have a Middle Eastern History class. not to be outdone, the post-AP exam period of my English Language class included an intensive literature study, where we laughed at good ol’ Yossarian in Catch-22, and developed a strong attachment to Jay gatsby. I’d like to think that The Great Gatsby’s pursuit of Daisy is not unlike my own pursuit of bacon. I’ve gobbled up new knowledge rapidly, hankering after it like any elusive bacon strip, and happily digesting any new bits of information. But six classes a year are simply not enough to satisfy my hunger for knowledge. Just as I eat bacon all three meals of the day (when possible), I attempt to learn all days of the week. rather than make another trip to some lackluster movie theatre on the weekend, I dedicate my   3: Academic Passion 23 time to reading another good book, or reviewing Economics with my friends. But high school is starting to smell like leftovers to me now; I want fresh, new, crisp learning. I want not to read a textbook written by a renowned professor: I want to hear him speak directly. I’m ready for the university, and hunger for all the new opportunities waiting for me! I’ve finished my breakfast, and now it’s time to get going to school.

I hAVE ALwAYS BEEN A mATh-ScIENcE girl. I sighed and sulked through classes on US History and French in eager anticipation of the formulas and applications I would be learning later in the day. I believe there are many factors which attribute to my success, two being my fascination and persistence. When I was seven I once asked what math was good for and why I should learn it. The answer I received simply does not do math justice, “One day when you’re in line at the grocery store the cashier will give you too little change and you’ll be glad you learned this.” now in calculus I see the application of all these once foreign symbols, formulas, and letters. I am often amazed by the calculations I am able to do using the cumulative information acquired from nearly 12 years of education, such as how to maximize the volume of a box given a certain surface area. Math is not just plug and chug as many view it but it requires creativity and thinking out of the box to solve the problems encountered in the real world. Beauty lies in its simplicity and in the fact that proofs and observations are what brought the golden rectangle from ancient greece, Pascal’s triangle, and the Pythagorean Theorem as well as a host of other theorems, equations, and postulates. Math has made the impossible possible and the once long and tedious, simple and quick. The genius of it is amazing as well as the fact that any person is capable of applying and discovering it. I draw graphs and try to make shapes from functions for fun, count to 10 to calm down, and save money at the store, too. For all of these reasons and many more, I am fascinated by math.   3: Academic Passion 25 I wasn’t always good at math, contrary to what students in my classes might say. When I first showed interest in math in the 5th grade my parents laughed; middle school was even worse. Incoming 6th graders were given a test on the second day of school and depending on their scores were placed into a high or low speed math class. I was put in the slow speed math and missed a lot of class my first year, as a result my grade drifted from a B to a C to a C-, then I got help. I knew I liked math and I didn’t want to do bad in it so I bought books and hired my older brother to help me. I eventually made it to a B+. Later, in the summer after my junior year, I took a course that covered nearly a year of Calculus. I was told that if I decided to take Calculus AB, I would be bored, so I went for a challenge. My strongest subject began to take up most of my time. I had to read review books, go online for help, and stay in during nutrition and lunch for extra instruction. It was hard, but my dedication paid off and I earned an A. This persistence and drive also help me excel in math.

whEN I wAS FoUr YEArS oLd, I fell in love. It was not a transient love-one that stayed by my side during the good times and vanished during the bad-but rather a love so deep that few would understand. It was not the love for a person, but the love for a language. It was the love for Spanish. Having been born and raised behind the Iron Curtain, in a country where Western influence was limited and the official and only language was romanian, I was on my own. Everyone around me, especially my family, had trouble understanding what could possibly draw me to such a foreign and, in their opinion, unattractive language. But as they say, love is blind, and the truth of the matter is that I wasn’t even sure what it was exactly that made Spanish so fascinating to me. The only thing I knew was that I absolutely adored hearing its perfectly articulated phrases, and trying to make sense of its sweet and tender words: serenades to my innocent ear. Spanish entered through my door on June 16th, 1994, when a man from the local cable company came to connect our living room to the   3: Academic Passion 27 rest of the world. That day, I was introduced to “Acasa,” a romanian cable network dedicated to broadcasting Spanish language telenovelas (soap operas) to romanian audiences. As I learned to read, I started associating the romanian subtitles with the Spanish dialogue, and little by little, I began understanding the language. For a little girl who had yet to discover new aspects of her own language, this was quite an accomplishment, but no one around me felt the same way. My father, enraged at my apparent “obsession” with the language, scolded me incessantly, declaring that: “We are immigrating to the United States, not to Mexico! You should spend your time learning English instead of watching that nonsense!” Sadly, my family’s objection was only the first of many hardships I was bound to encounter. When I was nine, my immigration to the US forced me to say goodbye to what had become a huge and indispensible part of me. I needed to hear Spanish, to listen to it daily, and although Los Angeles could be considered a Spanish speaker’s paradise, my largely romanian neighborhood allowed for little interaction with the language. For six years, destiny kept us apart and the feelings that Spanish had evoked in me soon faded away. But high school brought about a new era in my life, an era in which my love for Spanish was revived and greatly amplified. For an hour a day, life was put on hold and I was able to speak and read Spanish more actively than ever. After two years of Advanced Placement Spanish, I not only understood the language to perfection, but spoke it flawlessly as well. There are no words that can describe how proud and greatly accomplished I feel today at my ability to speak Spanish. During a recent trip to Mexico, I was mistaken more than once for one of the natives. One man, after seeing my romanian last name, asked me if it was my husband’s, for undoubtedly, he believed, I was Mexican. given to a romanian girl, whose family members were oblivious to the language, and who had learned it on her own despite their objections, this was the greatest compliment of all. In the United States, Spanish is the second most spoken language and a great asset for anyone who speaks it. It is not “nonsense,” as my father had dubbed it, and being able to prove this to him has made me even prouder for loving Spanish. My love of Spanish has influenced much of who I am today. The fight that I led against family objections and immigration to a new land 28   has allowed me to develop an ambitious and aggressive spirit in the face of adversity. It has made me stronger, and taught me that I must always fight with unstoppable perseverance for all that is important to me. I am determined to use my love and passion for Spanish to make an impact on the world. Currently, Spanish is the primary language of 21 nations around the globe, and one of the six official languages of the Un. I want to be the link that connects these nations to the United States, and to the 40 million Americans whose native language is Spanish. I want to use my ability to speak Spanish to learn more about the people of these nations, both on a professional and personal level. no matter where the path of life takes me, I wish for Spanish to always be a part of me. Through the years, Spanish has evolved into one of my most remarkable accomplishments. Today, I am prouder than ever of loving Spanish-of having something that distinguishes me from the rest, something that makes me unique. It is not often the case for a romanianAmerican girl living in Los Angeles to exhibit such passion and devotion towards a language that is foreign to both her native and adoptive countries. nevertheless, Spanish is a big part of whom I am today, and an even bigger part of who I will be in the future.

ThIS SUmmEr, I wENT To ThE governor’s Honors Program, also known as gHP, a six-week intensive college-like experience where the best and brightest students in georgia gather to learn and grow as individuals. It was the best thing that has ever happened to me. That is something of a hackneyed phrase; people cheapen the extremes of language by constantly using superlatives for everyday occurrences, making it harder and harder to actually describe the few subtle and transcendent moments of life. In Madame Bovary, Flaubert claims that 30   language is but a cracked kettle on which we play music for the bears to dance, while we dream of making the stars weep. The experiences we have never fit within the too-close confines of language; but I will try anyway. The classes that I attended were nothing like the classes that I would take normally. nowhere else would the teachers encourage sixteen and seventeen year-olds to look for sexual imagery in Shakespeare, and then find even more than they did, without the exercise being sordid instead of literary. I attended classes named anything from Dirty Words: Clean Thoughts (a class on Profanity; the only course in which the use of profane or vulgar language was prohibited) to Teenage Female Angst: Beyond Holden Caulfield to Buffy the Vampire Slayer. All of them opened my mind to a brand-new way of looking at the world, and processing information. Thanks to the varying education that I received, I know that valuable information about life is not only in the “classics,” but even appears in seemingly mindless and trashy zombie films. While I learned a lot in the classrooms of gHP, I feel that most of my growth occurred outside of the classroom. I met the sort of people who will change the world, who will go forth into the world and, without making a big name, will do the things that make the world a better place. My best friends there were people that I would never have met; people I would never have known existed; people that I can now not imagine life without. One was a math major, an excellent athlete in every sport, and an accomplished singer; the running joke was that the only thing that he was bad at was failing. The other was a phenomenal writer, always ready to play an endearing trick on somebody, and the former’s girl-friend. Both of them were fairly conservative Christians, and yet totally accepting of me for whom I was, despite any of my clashes with their beliefs. I did not limit myself though, and made it almost a mission to find and talk to as many of the people there, because I was sure that each and every one of them would have an interesting perspective on things. Once I was walking back from playing Frisbee, and was stopped to discuss what the ethical framework for life ought to be; just for fun. The experience that I had there has undeniably changed me forever.

ThIS pAST SUmmEr I hAd ThE opportunity to participate in a highly rigorous academic program at MIT called MITES, Minority Introduction to Engineering and Science. For six and a half weeks I lived with 68 other rising seniors and college undergrads. Though we were all warned about how hard the program would be, we were all at the top of our classes and refused to believe it- after all, who did they think we were? The first day we sat together in a small auditorium, unaware of each other and of what lay ahead. We were told that our confidence would be shattered, our minds blown away, and our lives changed forever. Still somewhat unmoved, we were not afraid. By the second week of MITES valedictorians, nerds, bookworms, and techies alike were leaning on each other’s shoulders at two in the morning crying over problem sets they had imagined only in nightmares. It is a well known fact that hard times bring friends closer together, but I would have never expected for these strangers to become my best friends, my support system, or even my family. The 16 hours days I was accustomed to at home did not last long. I was getting an average of four hours of sleep per night, finishing a book per week, zooming through subjects once foreign to me, and constructing a semiautonomous robot from drill motors all at the same time. We were each enrolled in 5 classes, my schedule consisted of Introductory Physics, Engineering Design, Chemistry, first year Calculus, and Humanities. In the month and a half we completed a semester of Physics and Chemistry each, a full year of Calculus, the material equivalent to a semester in AP literature, and introductory level engineering. The work was so intense that when I entered school in the   3: Academic Passion 33 fall I enrolled in second year Calculus, and maintained the only A in AP Physics, having no physics experience prior to MITES. Since this program I have not been satisfied with the regular coursework given at my school. I am constantly on the lookout for new programs to enroll in and other teams, clubs, and groups to join. This academic school year marks the peak of my involvement in educational opportunities. I have somehow managed to find time for the Speech and Debate team, ACE mentoring team, swim team, Science Bowl team, California Honors Society and Scholarship Federation, Play Production, Jewish Student Union, gEAr-UP Mentoring Program, and folklorico dancing. MITES was the most challenging experience of my life. The program is the single most pivotal point in my academic endeavors to date. The assistants we had had all gone through the program and agreed that even in college at Harvard, MIT, Caltech, and Princeton, nothing came close. The motivation and encouragement I gained from MITES has fueled my academic pursuits and pushed me to raise the bar.

“roSENcrANTz ANd GUILdENSTErN ArE dEAd” IS an astounding, intellectually challenging, and humorous concoction. Stoppard cleverly captures the characters of Hamlet, written by Shakespeare, but creates somewhat of a comic tragedy. Clearly an oxymoron, but profoundly effective. The play focuses on the story of Hamlet, but from the viewpoint of rosencrantz and guildenstern, and it also takes the theories proposed in Hamlet and presents them in a comic, rather than sullen, manner. One of the most humorous scenes is when rosencrantz, or guildenstern, since the distinction is never truly made between the two, is laying on a table and thinking to himself what it is like to be “dead in a box.” This scene proves to be hilarious, despite its deep meaning, and parallels the infamous “To be, or not to be” speech in Hamlet. Life’s unanswerable questions are constantly being asked throughout the play, but by inserting these dubious inquiries within a comedy, Stoppard is able to captivate and preserve his audience’s attention. In fact, the humor provides the wiring, which connects the 36   messages of the play to our own chaotic existences. This brilliant literary work captures the essence of a tragedy within a comedy, something only few authors can accomplish. It is able to provide profound, theoretical ideas that have long been questioned into a comic perspective, and yet keep its integrity.

whEN mY GrANdmoThEr cAmE To VISIT five years ago, she brought me a 3,000 piece jigsaw puzzle. To most, this would not sound very exciting—it would be almost as bad as a shirt saying “My grandparents went to India, and all they bought me was this stupid shirt.” My reaction to the puzzle was different. I cut open the cardboard box as soon as I could, and poured the pieces out onto my puzzleboard. I worked patiently on the puzzle for hours at a time, my excitement building as more and more of the picture was revealed. I cut down my sleep time until the image of a picturesque forest was complete. The puzzle overshadowed all else in my life, if only for that short period of time. Working on puzzles has helped me gain focus, determination, and patience. I have learned to apply these qualities to every task I face, dealing with the outside world in the same fashion as I would a puzzle. My love for science stems largely from this; science requires the same logical and levelheaded approach that a puzzle does, and as evidenced 40   by the many puzzles decorating my house, this is an approach which suits my skills and temperament. This intellectual stimulation, coupled with a desire to discover more about life’s mysteries, compels me to pursue a career in scientific research. This summer, I worked in a cardiology laboratory at UCLA, looking at proteins associated with HDL to understand how atherosclerosis can be averted. After some experiments provided questionable results, I was given the task of confirming that the viruses we were working with had been packaged and identified correctly. I spent weeks running DnA gels, looking for specific genes in each virus, but my results were inconsistent. I was frustrated, but instead of giving up on my assignment, I was even more determined to find an explanation. I considered every aspect of the experiment, working backwards until I reached the source—the primers I had used to amplify the DnA were nonspecific and ineffective, and thus useless in distinguishing the three genes of interest to us. Knowing this, I was able to alter my experiment accordingly, looking at protein content instead of DnA sequences. I finally showed that two of the three viruses were correct; the third, however, needed to be repackaged. My work was crucial to the undergraduate student I was working with, because he was able to redesign his experiment to account for this third virus. Working in a lab was an exhilarating experience for me. Even though I gave up lying on the beach to instead play with viruses and chemicals, the compulsion to understand these proteins inspired and motivated me. I am tremendously proud of the piece I contributed to the atherosclerosis puzzle: a small piece, but integral nonetheless. The sense of accomplishment I felt because of my work in the UCLA lab was much the same as that which I felt upon completing the 3,000 piece puzzle my grandmother gave me. This feeling is one I hope to experience throughout my life, because the atherosclerosis puzzle is most assuredly not the last such puzzle I will work on.

mY rEASoNS For wANTING To BE a doctor are very similar to why most people choose their career path: I want to make things fairer. People such as social workers are out to help make the world a little less unjust. It’s not necessarily injustice from other people that I want to fight as these people do, but injustice from other factors. Many people who are close to me have been struck down from their future in ways that it’s impossible for them to recover. My aunt was a great artist and loving mother before she developed severe schizophrenia. She now locks herself in her house for weeks at a time and remains isolated from her family. My friend Eric, who was once in his school’s varsity basketball league, cannot play his senior season because a car accident left him nearly paralyzed. Finally, my friend vince’s depression has stripped him of his will to live, and despite attempts of over a dozen psychiatrists and medications he still spends most of his days aimlessly lying in bed. While I try very hard to cheer him up by talking to and entertaining him I am deeply concerned about his future. This trend is something that I’m seeing almost everywhere. More and more people are becoming depressed and hopeless, and I want to be able to put life and happiness back into them. not only do I see these injustices in my life, when I’m volunteering at my local hospital my desire to help become even more emboldened by the people I meet. A new grandmother I met recently had her spine shattered when she fell from a ladder back onto a table. As I talked to her, I remembered how many times I’ve seen pictures of my grandmother lifting me and my cousins and caring for us, and became overcome with emotion. While I don’t believe her ability to care for her grandchildren will be destroyed, I know that she won’t have the same opportunities as other grandparents and the inequality of the situation makes me extremely upset. I want nothing more than to give back her ability to walk and lift her grandkids. I believe being a doctor can allow me to bring this closer.

SINcE I hAVE ALwAYS BEEN INTErESTEd in science and technology, I subscribed to many research magazines, including Popular Science and Scientific American. However, until 10th grade, I never had the opportunity to contribute to medical research—something that I had always wanted to do. Then, one day I read an article titled “Print Me a Pancreas, Please” in Popular Science, which described novel tissue engineering research involving modification of off-the-shelf inkjet printers to print out living cells in a “bioink” solution. Having read much about tissue engineering, I realized this “organ printing” approach could potentially address problems of traditional tissue engineering methods, such as the need to precisely place specific cell types in 3D scaffolds. I was so excited that I came up with a few ideas of my own about advancing the printer capabilities. I was impelled to contact the researchers at the Medical University of South Carolina (MUSC) and Clemson University (CU). I corresponded with the professor at MUSC and visited his lab multiple times, but realized that the actual printers were kept at CU. Therefore, I contacted the researchers at CU, who did not reply to about 50 of my e-mails. not the one to give up easily, I called the Principal Investigator (PI) and expressed my eagerness to contribute to the research. After seeing my resumé and computer-aided designs (“roadmap to Organ Printing”), he invited me to meet him at his lab on October 18th, which conflicted with my school’s Homecoming dance. To my friends’ bewilderment I made the “unpopular” decision to miss the dance. They could not understand why I preferred driving 26 hours to meet a researcher and miss all the fun at the once-a-year dance. To me, this was clearly the right choice. I was trading a great school experience to literally get my hands into cutting-edge medical research. The PI was so impressed with my original CAD designs (“roadmap to Organ Printing”) and my resume that he invited me to research at his lab. Over Christmas and other school breaks, I learned many laboratory techniques, conducted novel research, and independently succeeded in “printing” the first functional 3D branching tube of smooth muscle cells (a rudimentary blood vessel). This research helped me win many   5: Career 45 science competitions and honors, including 2nd Place in Medicine and Health at the Intel International Science and Engineering Fair and become the Top Florida Presenter at the national Junior Science and Humanities Symposium. My computer-aided designs were published in Biomaterials Forum and the Journal of Thoracic and Cardiovascular Surgery. This remarkable experience inspired me to perform many additional research projects and I consider it a turning point in my life. It has increased my passion for research and my determination to be a physician and work on devices or pharmaceuticals that improve people’s quality of life. I have also become more confident in my research efforts and am able to contact any researcher to pursue a position in their laboratory. I have realized that there are many opportunities for students like myself to contribute to labs and brainstorm solutions for current problems.

whILE hEALING pEopLE wILL BE mY main priority as a doctor, I don’t want to only help individuals overcome disease after disease. For true change I must work on a much larger scale. I plan on being involved in research, and drawing ideas and information from my patients and sharing it with researchers to find answers about the ailments that plague the human mind. By being a voice from the front lines I hope that I can catalyze the development of treatments and cures. Additionally, I want to become an advocate for public health. If a government is doing something that is detrimental to the health of its citizens, someone needs to point it out, and fight for a better alternative. Unless I do this then the people I help will continue to get sick regardless of how much I help. Still, my main task as a doctor is to help patients, and I want to help as many of them as I can. Seeing the reality of the health of the world is very important to me if I am going to properly improve it. I have been so fortunate to live in a place where medicine is so refined, and I am even more blessed to know that I have the chance to help spread this refinement. While issues such as world hunger are constantly being improved, doctors in other countries are scarce and locals are   5: Career 47 still being trained in ancient ways and often hurting their patents more than helping. I want to give back my blessings a hundred-fold and spread better medicine. First, I want to see the health of our world as I help it by joining Medecins Sans Frontieres as soon as I can. Only after I help things first hand can I make a mature decision on how I should try to help the world as a whole. I feel the experiences that I get from my education and the experiences helping people across the world will give me a very strong ability to know how to help to the best of my abilities. Today I am already planning for this journey by teaching myself foreign languages. I hope that by the time I am ready to help people, knowing many languages will help me bond with my patients and truly make me a doctor without borders. I plan on fighting for health for as long as I can, and I want to help every person I can regardless of background, money or stigma.

GrowING Up wITh SEpArATEd pArENTS hAS not been the easiest life, but it has been my life. When I was younger, I’d hate going out to eat with my dad and seeing a family of four happily enjoying a meal. If my mother and father ever went out together to a restaurant, it was with me, once a year for my birthday, and was usually interspersed with various disagreements. It was when I was in first grade that I began to realize that, although my parents had their differences and no longer loved each other, I was the one thing that united them. I had no basis to be envious of what I thought of as “complete” families. Both my mother and father, wanting the best for me, recognized early on my love and fascination with all things scientific. They worked to create opportunities for me to pursue my interest. My mother would read at bedtime, at my request, nature field guides instead of nursery rhymes. The two of us often made long journeys at 3:00 A.M. to witness meteor showers in the clear skies of the mountains. She encouraged me to set up experiments around the house, which I happily did—measuring the growth of palm tree saplings and dissecting owl pellets to extract the mouse bones inside. An environmental scientist, my father could not wait to transfer all of his scientific knowledge into my young head. needless to say, many of his spontaneous lectures were far above my grasp—I still vaguely remember a quantum physics talk he gave me when I was eight—but they inspired me to learn more on my own. My thirst for scientific knowledge grew over the years, without limits in any one specific area. Then, in January four years ago, my   5: Career 49 Aunt Diane died after a five-year battle with breast cancer. It was during my aunt’s illness that I realized I could use my natural love of science to benefit others facing similar challenges. I have continually pushed myself closer to this goal by excelling in my AP science classes, studying biotechnology at UC Davis through the COSMOS program, and competing as a member of my school’s Science Bowl Team. This past summer, I had the opportunity to intern at the reijo Pera Lab at Stanford University through the Stanford Institutes of Medicine Summer research Program. During this two-month internship, I worked with human embryonic stem cells to explore the function of PrDM1, a potentially-useful gene in the creation of regenerative medicines. The scientific spark my parents recognized years ago has shaped my life, and with it, I wish to shape the lives of others. I aspire to become a biomedical researcher, a career that harnesses my long-time fascination of science and my commitment to improve the quality of life for those facing medical challenges. It would be a privilege to work alongside scientists, exploring new treatments and technologies to create exciting new options for patients and their families.

I Trod ThE mUd IN ThE misty spring rain. It was Qing Ming, the holiday in China when we honored our deceased ancestors. On the ground of the cemetery, drenched flowers lay in my grandfather’s remembrance. That morning—a month before my sixth birthday—I clung tightly to my mother’s sleeves and finally learned why he passed away. My grandfather had been a victim of cancer. Because the diagnosis came too late, all treatment was futile. As my mother whispered this to me with grief in her eyes, I stomped angrily in the mud. I blamed the doctors who couldn’t find the tumor in time to save him. That rainy morning launched my dream to help cure cancer—a common wish, but one that fueled a life-changing pursuit. Knowing that the best pro-   5: Career 51 tection against cancer was to detect it as early as possible, I examined the widely used methods of detection. I read about mammography and was astounded to learn that it failed to detect a large percentage of cases. As I wondered how to make detection more accurate, I heard about a research internship program at ____ Cancer Center. I jumped at the opportunity. There, my mentors encouraged me to investigate cancer’s genetic causes. I became intrigued by a gene suspected to play a role in the onset of breast cancer. We examined a process of gene-silencing— known as methylation—that changed DnA structure while keeping the sequence itself intact. Through a series of assays, we pinpointed the methylated sites in the gene sequence that distinguished cancerous breast cells from healthy cells. These were markers of disease! The thrill came from knowing the vast clinical applications of the discovery. Finding such markers is a step toward the individualization of cancer treatment. genomics-based diagnostics would detect cancer earlier than traditional procedures. Also, since methylation does not change the DnA sequence, it is reversible. Therapeutics could target these sites and minimize harm to healthy tissue. Personalized cancer diagnostics promise a new dawn, but they are not yet reality. Many more genes need to be studied before we can fully comprehend the roots of the disease. Awed by the complexity of cancer, I realized that my dream was much more intricate than I imagined. However, my youthful passion in medicine did not dwindle. Instead, it strengthened and matured into a strategy. As my vague goals shaped into specific inquiries, my curiosity became insatiable. The joy of uncovering the unknown affirmed my love for science. My generation will keep pushing the boundaries of knowledge, and nothing would give me more fulfillment than continuing to fight in the war on cancer. I recall that rainy Qing Ming morning when I gazed at my grandfather’s gravesite. I wish I could tell him about the adventure he inspired. This war will be arduous, but every little “eureka!” along the way is a portent of victory.

EVErY TImE I drIVE INTo A client’s driveway, there’s always that moment. That moment where I must shed any doubt I have and become adamant. That moment where I realize that, people are depending on me, and I must do my best to help them. And that moment where, with tool bag to my side, I must prepare to face whatever problem is waiting for me in their house. This time is no different. As with the hundreds of other problems I’ve faced, I must remember that every problem has a solution, and I can find it. When I am greeted by a middle-aged woman as I approach the house, my remaining doubts evaporate. Once I see the individual I am about to help I become saturated with resolve. However, all she will see from me is a smile as I ask her how she is. I then ask her what the problem is, and she leads me to her computer. She tells me that her computer is shutting down randomly, and then leaves as I begin to work. With a simple push of the power button, the process begins. Unfortunately, for this case, just as quickly as it starts—the computer 54   shuts off. never discouraged, I dismantle it to look for obvious signs of damage. However, everything here appears normal: wires secure, circuits shining. But there’s another test that may work. Eyes focused on the inside of the computer, I turn it on again. I have only a moment before it succumbs to its ailment again. Additionally, each time it starts could be damaging, so I have to make this count. When the sound of electricity surging through the computer begins, I immediately notice a vital fan failing to twirl: the computer is simply overheating. With a quick pull of the power I anesthetize the computer and operate. Using a replacement and screwdriver from my bag, I give the computer a new fan. Then, I start the computer nervously, but it starts perfectly. My confidence and determination sweat off as accomplishment. I quickly look for the woman. She can tell I solved her problem as I walk towards her with a grin, and she smiles too. This case is one of the hundreds I’ve solved over the past few years, all without a single failure to find a practical solution. I started my business because after seeing how grossly overcharged the community was by corporate technicians, I believed it would be a practical and great way for me to help the community and have a job. After fixing computers for my school for a year, school officials quickly noticed and spread word of my work, allowing my business to spread like wildfire throughout the local communities. With determination (and some creativity) I’ve solved some very unordinary and strange problems. I’d like to use this same willpower to help people in even better ways. no matter how impossible the problems I encounter may seem I will always remember what I tell myself when I fix computers: every problem must have a solution, and I can find it.

pArT oF mE IS mISSING. IT’S an identifiable, yet indescribable absence. It is odd how I can find more information about the initial supposed creators, Adam and Eve, than I can about my own. I don’t know my father, and I doubt that I ever will. He left two weeks after I was born because I lacked a certain male member. Fidelity to personal convictions was more important to him than a life that he had just shepherded into this world. Because of his definitive choice, I will only be able to associate with him as a support check number until I am eighteen years of age. After that, who knows? When I was eleven, my mother decided to call this long-gone man in search of owed child support. After eleven years of nothingness, financial distress caused my mother call this absolute last resource. In my house, we had an early 90s telephone that had a speaker/mute function. I can still see that outdated piece of technology in the corner of my mind. That speaker/mute function granted me the only contact with my father that I have ever known. 58   I was a mischievous child; I knew that day that my mother was physically on the phone with my birthfather. I was naïve. I thought that hearing my father’s voice would fill the void created by years of absence. I thought that hearing his voice would allow me to place my father on the same grand plateau as other fathers who had always been there for their children, loved their children. I snuck into the room with the technical phone and silently listened in on the conversation. I felt smart and sly as I pressed the button that put the stranger’s voice on the speakerphone. “Hah,” I thought, “he can’t hear me, but I can hear him.” Maybe if he would have known the simple fact that his daughter was listening, maybe then some shred of human decency would have shined through. Those few moments provided me with the only ounce of a man that comprises half of my biology that I will ever know. Unfortunately, the stranger didn’t know I was listening. Like my life before, he never knew that I was there. As he yelled at my mother, I could hear the fear in her voice as he responded to her pleas with such malice. My mother tried to convey to my father that I was not just his incarnation to be provided for, but rather, a spectacular human being. As I sat there, listening intently to the conversation, I felt validated as a daughter by my mother’s words, but shattered as a human being by my “father’s” insolence. In the moments that followed, that little girl, initially so excited at the prospect of finally being able to physically hear her creator, was eternally crushed. “Just because she exists doesn’t mean I have to love her; it doesn’t mean I have to know her. I don’t love her, and I never will.” Crash. Is it possible for the strongest muscle in your body to simply break in half? One of my genetic halves had declared that he loathed my very existence. Those words succeeded to shatter my heart into a million pieces. I didn’t know how to react. I turned off the phone and slithered back to my room. How could someone be so heartless? How could someone that heartless be a part of me? no words. I have been sobered by pain in a way that no psychological study ever could attempt. I may never know my father because of his decision, and in turn, he will never know me. In the end, his loss will be the greater one. My “father’s” shining example of misconduct ironically guides me as a moral, ethical person. rather than searching for any fault within myself, I use my father’s failure as a tool. I take an earnest   7: Challenges 59 and honest stance in life. I know my great worth. I have nothing to prove to anyone, including myself.

I wISh I wAS INVISIBLE. I wish I was invisible. I wish I was invisible. One of my biggest fears has always been going to an unfamiliar place, but each time I have had the satisfaction of knowing that at the end of the day I can go home. I am a shy person, and it has always been difficult for me to adjust to a new environment. Transitioning from eighth grade to high school was especially difficult for me because my high school was, in fact, a boarding school, which meant that that feeling of satisfaction was no longer present at the end of the day but postponed to the end of the week. Living at LFA was a completely new world for me and nothing I had experienced could have prepared me for it. With confused eyes and nothing less than a nauseous sensation in my stomach I entered my first day of high school. growing up, I had always gone to school with people who looked like me, sounded like me, and dressed liked me, but here I quickly learned that I was the minority. I was not alone in this. Two of my friends came to LFA with me and, with this in mind, my shyness and I did not think it necessary to make new friends. Besides being one of the only schools with its own ice rink and providing only the latest technology for its students, it suddenly hit me that my new home had countless possibilities, but, before those possibilities could be realized, I had to take initiative. I learned a very important lesson at LFA: you will only get out of life as much as you put into it. Stepping out of my comfort zone allowed me to discover an interest and skill for volleyball and hidden leadership as the captain of the Jv team. I became a tutor and friend for young Hispanic students   7: Challenges 61 at the nuestro Center, and they reminded me how important it is to give back to the community. After numerous all nighters, I developed a system where I could get all of my homework done and still be able to get involved with sports and extracurriculars without having to sacrifice any sleep time. Towards the end of my sophomore year a family member’s sickness unfortunately forced me to leave my school and return home. I left LFA and joined my new family, Mirta ramirez Computer Science Charter High School. Containing a student body that was 99 percent Hispanic, I was no longer the minority. I had unconsciously become accustomed to the LFA way of life because, in my mind, this tiny mustard yellow building with no more than four windows could not possibly compare to my old home. I was right. no, my new home was not as big nor as fancy, but I discovered that was not a setback. Although the resources were not directly visible nor as easily accessible, I learned that obstacles did not exist for students there. Most, if not all, of the students had the same hunger for knowledge as I had. This summer my school announced that the building which we had been using had fire code violations and we could not return to our building in the fall. Throughout the summer my school did not have a building and did not find one until a few weeks after school started. By that time I had already taken a decision to, once again, leave my home and join yet another family. What I realized on my first day at Josephinum Academy, was that my shyness had not tagged along and I was eager to go to school. The nauseous feeling had left my stomach and enthusiasm had entered. I had already gained and learned so much from the people I had met in my two previous schools that I could not wait to continue my journey and embark on yet another discovery. The knowledge that I have gained from these three schools is something I will take with me far beyond college. My roommate, across-thehall mates, and classmates have influenced my life as much as I hope to have impacted theirs. It is evident to me that they have helped me develop into the very much visible person I am today. I have learned to step outside of my comfort zone, and I have learned that diversity is so much more than the tint of our skin. My small mustard colored school taught me that opportunity and success only requires desire. I would be an asset to your college because as I continue on my journey to success, I will take advantage of every opportunity that is 62   available to me and make sure to contribute as much as I can too. now I am visible. now I am visible. now I am visible, and I want to be seen. An

I BELIEVE IN pEopLE. ThIS coNVIcTIoN drives my action and ambitions, and defines me in a world of cynicism and doubt. I have seen the power of people and their ability to come together in times of need and joy and sorrow. I know that ultimately, humans strive for belonging and community; thus, while loneliness and anger may always be in existence, so will be togetherness and bliss. My strong faith in humanity stems from my witnessing of the best in human qualities while doing the MS150 and during Hurricane Ike, and pushes me to pursue a career in helping others. Both of these events have allowed me to see humanity at its best, performing selfless acts of benevolence. For the past four years, I have participated in the BPMS150 bike tour from Houston to Austin. This 175 mile ride raises funds for the national MS Society, which sponsors medical research for multiple sclerosis and aids the families of its victims. I can say from experience, the ride is grueling; enormous hills, headwinds, fatigue, and body aches are prevalent throughout. Yet every year, over thirteen thousand riders decide to put their minds and bodies through two days of torture so that they can help those who live with it every day. I have raised, over four years, more than eight thousand dollars to benefit the MS Society, and have never regretted any of the painful training or the ride itself. The view at the starting line is one of the most empowering I have ever 64   witnessed: thousands of people, all of them with their hands on their handle bars, one foot poised on a pedal. All are ready to experience exhaustion for the benefit of others, like my father. He was diagnosed with MS when I was four, and is a constant motivator for me. I witnessed him become blind in one eye, and struggle with a body that refuses to function normally. I participate in this ride every year for him, as do thirteen thousand others. The power of people will ultimately help my father to receive better medical treatment, and maybe even one day, be cured. While writing this essay, I was also able to observe and be a part of amazing human efforts. Hurricane Ike devastated Southeastern Texas, particularly the Houston and galveston areas. Much of my extended family lives in galveston, and so was forced to evacuate. Without hesitation, my parents opened up our home to aunts, uncles, grandparents, cousins, and pets. This is the environment in which I have always lived; our home is anyone’s shelter, our food is anyone’s nourishment. Together, our entire family weathered the storm, and comforted one another. My aunt’s home received electrical power prior to my home, and so she eagerly welcomed us to stay with her. Large scale displays of altruism could be seen in the hundreds of University of Houston students handing out food and water to those affected by the hurricane. During times of need, people band together for safety and solace. Community is instinctual; dismiss the notions of survival of the fittest. People truly desire closeness with one another. In the future, I hope to pursue a career in public health. I love studying science and math, and I would like to use this passion to benefit large numbers of people. Many go without basic medical treatment, and this causes a huge discrepancy in quality of life and health in the population. Even if this problem can never completely be solved, I want to help remedy this as much as possible. With small deeds and cooperative effort, humans can accomplish immense good. I know this because I believe in people, and I have seen them at their finest.

JULY 22 LAST YEAr wAS mEANT to be a typical Sunday. Just like every Sunday, my mother and I were getting ready to visit my older brother at his Waikiki apartment, where we would talk for a little while. But July 22nd was different. That chilly morning, we got a phone call from his roommate telling us my brother was going to the emergency room. As we drove to Queen’s Hospital, I didn’t know what to think. Although I tried to assure myself that nothing serious could have happened to him, anxiety clouded my mind. My brother, Tyson, emigrated from vietnam with my mom and my other older brother to the United States in 1990, with dreams of a new life and fresh opportunities. He enrolled in high school with virtually no knowledge of the English language. Even though he had to simultaneously manage a part-time job at McDonald’s, he excelled in academics and was the top of his class in calculus. At 34 years old, he was the epitome of health: he ran marathons every year, had a healthy diet, and never smoked or drank alcohol. When I got to the Er and saw him lying in the hospital bed, he looked like the Tyson that I always knew. nothing seemed wrong. He just seemed tired, and he didn’t have the energy to speak. However, coming back from an MrI scan, my brother seemed different. His eyes were unfocused and dazed, as if he didn’t see the room in front of him. Uneasiness and fear rushed down my spine. I shouted for help, just as my brother’s body started to spasm. I felt a profound emotion surging up in me, one that I had never experienced before--a wrenching sense of trepidation, laced with sickening adrenaline. The seizure took control of his body, and he began to foam at the mouth. His body seized up, but I was frozen still. I didn’t know what to do. I felt useless and terrified. Tyson told me, when I was just a kid, not to work while I was in high school. I was young, though, and still wanted to work because I wanted to make money, like him. During his high school years, he took on a part-time job after school, even though it meant he had to come home late every night. Often, he would stay up through the early hours of the morning, determined to complete his schoolwork. He held down   7: Challenges 67 the job, despite its exhausting physical toll, because he had to: he had to assist with the bills and support my mom, so that she could take English classes at the local community college. Tyson said that I didn’t have to work, because he would always be there to support me. While my brother was in the hospital, my mother and I went there every day from before dawn to late at night, when the streets were empty. Tyson had developed severe brain inflammation as a result of the seizure. He had dozens of tests done: X-rays, MrIs, blood tests, spinal taps, a bronchoscopy, and even a brain biopsy. A labyrinth of Iv tubes, wires, and cables were hooked up to his body, monitoring his life signs and feeding dozens of chemicals and solutions into his bloodstream. The doctors kept him constantly sedated. His brain inflammation was life-threatening, and he caught a case of severe pneumonia. His doctors had to place him on life support. In three weeks, my brother had gone from being in the best shape of his life, from being a veritable Superman, to laying on his deathbed. When I was a kid, I was a crybaby. I cried when I didn’t get the toy I wanted. I cried when I didn’t get the food I wanted. However, at some point during my childhood, around the age of six, I stopped crying. no matter how much I was teased or pushed around, I never cried. no matter how much I was mocked about my clothes, or my ethnicity, I didn’t cry. August 11 last year was the first time since childhood that I cried. It was the day that my brother passed away. And it was the first time that I ever saw my mom cry. It was a traumatizing experience, and for a while I was depressed that such a tragedy could occur so arbitrarily to someone like my brother: someone who was strong, someone who was healthy, someone who lived by a strong moral code and never sacrificed his values for material rewards. But after a while, I realized that the circumstances of his death were not a refutation of his beliefs, but instead, a reminder of their importance. Even though we cannot control the twists and turns of life, we must deal with them as best we can. My brother, even though he didn’t know English, enrolled in school and ultimately excelled. And at the same time, to help our mother go to school on the side, he took on a part-time job. Certainly he must have wished that he hadn’t faced those disadvantages, but he didn’t complain. rather, he faced the realities of his situation head-on, and succeeded. Tyson’s death was a tragic reflection of the cold, random chance 68   of nature, but it was in no way any verdict on his philosophy: instead, I realized, it served as a clear reminder to me that the worst can happen to even the best, and that the strength of an individual lies in his ability to maintain his values when faced with such difficult situations. Today, I still hold onto the lessons that my brother taught me through his actions: to put the needs of your family first, to always persevere in the face of adversity, and to never compromise your ideals for petty desires. To lose heart in these values because of his death, then, would be a harsh disservice to Tyson’s legacy.

“IT AppEArS ALL YoUr cELLS ArE dEAd.” Only shock prevented the tears from streaming down my face. My cells were dead. After being accepted into the competitive Stanford Institutes of Medicine Summer research Program (SIMr), and spending approximately 170 hours of the past month manipulating human embryonic stem cells (hESCs), I was back to square one—with only one month of my internship remaining. How in the world was I going to make up for lost time? As I asked myself the question, I thought back to exactly how I had spent those 170 hours, working to develop the stem cells which now, under the microscope, were hollow with the absence of life. I started my internship a little overwhelmed by the fancy hoods, automatic pipettes, and high-speed centrifuges. But by the first of the 170 hours, I had familiarized myself with the equipment and begun my quest to find the function of PrDM1—a gene thought to control replication in hESCs. First though, I needed to make a growth medium for the hESCs. I painstakingly measured to the ten millionth of a liter, 70   testing the accuracy of each measurement multiple times before finally dispensing it into the medium solution. After I had plated the hESCs on my new medium, I waited with bated breath for the results. To my joy, two days later, my cells were thriving and even outgrowing their new home. Known for their ability to quickly replicate, it was logical they would need to be frequently transferred. The difficult part was that, as part of my experiment to find the purpose of PrDM1, I had different strains of hESCs (some serving as “control” strains) which could not be mixed. Transferring hESCs is a process requiring great concentration and coordination. It took me about three hours the first time. By the end of the month, though, transferring was second nature and my cells were doing well—I had inserted a fluorescent protein into their DnA to verify the hESCs containing the resistant vector were living, as hypothesized. I had successfully created hundreds of stable hESC colonies of different strains. Everything seemed to be going so well . . . But now was not the time to reminiscence. I snapped out of my daydream and refocused on the situation at hand. “Ariela? I know taking the news the first time can be hard, but keep in mind, you probably didn’t do anything wrong. You know how sensitive they are . . . this sort of thing is common when working with stem cells.” “I know,” I said, smiling genuinely this time, “I’m ready to try again.” My project was not completed by the end of the summer, but through hard work, I was able to replicate parts of the experiment to produce valuable data. Although the experiment did not go as planned, I am proud of myself for persevering. As Thomas Edison said, “Our greatest weakness lies in giving up. The most certain way to succeed is always to try just one more time.”

hE’S IN mY ArmS, ThE NEwEST addition to the family. I’m too overwhelmed. “That’s why I wanted you to go to Bishop Loughlin,” she says, preparing baby bottles. “But ma, I chose Tech because I wanted to be challenged.” “Well, you’re going to have to deal with it,” she replies, adding, “Your aunt watched you when she was in high school.” “But ma, there are three of them. It’s hard!” returning home from a summer program that cemented intellectual and social independence to find a new baby was not exactly thrilling. Add him to the toddler and seven year old sister I have and there’s no wonder why I sing songs from Blue’s Clues and The Backyardigans instead of sane seventeen year old activities. It’s never been simple; as a female and the oldest, I’m to significantly rear the children and clean up the shabby apartment before an ounce of pseudo freedom reaches my hands. If I can manage to get my toddler brother onto the city bus and take him home from day care without snot on my shoulder, and if I can manage to take off his coat and sneakers without demonic screaming for no apparent reason, then it’s a good day. Only, waking up at three in the morning to work, the only free time I have, is not my cup of Starbucks. We were already different at age fourteen. She gave birth to me and went to an alternative high school; I established closeness with new friends in a competitive high school. She and my then present father were taking care of me; I was studying the environmental effects on the onset of schizophrenia. She took her daughter to preschool, and I vowed to never let anything get in the way of my academics. Even though I’m taking courses that prepare me for a career in the medical field, a path I would not pursue even at risk of spontaneous combustion of Earth, there is no excuse for me to fail. After all, my family has a reputation for failure, and if I don’t push myself, no one else will. When I think of me not choosing the effortless Bishop Loughlin High School and traditional fun with friends and preferring the intense courses, dedication to achievement, and overall feeling of self-worth, I cannot believe my mother still can’t accept my choice. One thing I’ve learned growing up in Brooklyn is that disappointment happens often. The bike I rode to school in the morning wasn’t there   7: Challenges 73 when I went to get it in the afternoon. That’s Brooklyn. Instead of seeing movies with friends on weekends, I work hard and attempt to keep the little kids out of my mom’s hair. That’s Brooklyn. Instead of going outside to my backyard, I remember I don’t have one, and settle for the 12’ by 6’ concrete space in front of my house. That’s Brooklyn. My Brooklyn doesn’t feature flowers of the freshest air or people who smile and say hi. Instead, there’s what might have been Orbit gum on the floor among the other thousand wads, a pool of strangely colored vomit, and the monotonous working class boarding the subway to the job it will complain about when it returns home. If there’s anything that Brooklyn has taught me, it’s “just do it.” I owe it to myself to keep trying, not because I have to, but because I want to prove to myself that I can. I’ll have to endure the requirements of helping to raise my siblings and other responsibilities. After the chaos and traffic and noise have settled, I know I’ve made the right choice, even if my mother hasn’t. And it’s all worth it.

ThE GrEATEST JoY oF mUSIc IS to share it with others. Unfortunately, the pleasure of performing is often forgotten when players become more concerned with the technicalities and notes. I also once thought that I knew all the important keys to successful piano playing: practice, technique, dedication, and a love for what I do. Focused on the details, I lost sight of my audience. During my sophomore year, my friend invited me to join “Music from the Heart,” a group that showcased its musical talents to senior citizens. Although I accepted the invitation to support her, I began to regret my choice as the first performance approached. not knowing how the seniors would respond to my performance, especially when I made a mistake, performing before the seniors became a terrifying thought. Although my first performance went smoothly, it was hard to know whether the seniors enjoyed the pieces or the performance. While the group performed, the seniors would talk to each other, pausing to clap 76   at the end of each piece. Trying to impress the audience, I eventually grew accustomed to preparing a showy piece as the monthly performance approached. So used to this monthly routine, I doubted that this performance would be different from the previous ones when I was ready to perform my favorite piece one summer day. While waiting for my turn, I glanced around the room, noting with some uneasiness the growing number of seniors gathered around the piano. Amidst the crowd of chattering seniors, one woman’s rapt attention to the performance caught my interest. She greeted each performer with a wide toothy smile and made a small comment about the composition. Uncertain of her expectations, I watched for her reaction when I rose to introduce my piece, “Clair de Lune” by Claude Debussy. “Ooh, I love that song,” was all she said in response. A smile crossed my face when I discovered that she shared my enthusiasm for the composition. To demonstrate to her how much I enjoyed the song, I played my best to convey what made this moonlight song so special to me. My minor concerns on technicalities slowly dissipated as the song progressed. All that mattered then was playing the song I loved as well as I could. For the first time, I felt contented with my performance, undisturbed by mistakes. The performance was far from perfect. However, none of the seniors commented that the rhythm was too slow or the notes were wrong like the audition judges would normally do. Although they still chattered softly during the performance, they all smiled and clapped. A few of them would say that the song was lovely. They appreciated my efforts to entertain them and eagerly asked the group to return soon. Just the delighted smile on the woman’s face made the performance worthwhile. It was the seniors’ appreciation for what I did that brought them back to the piano each month, and my love for what I did that drew me to it. The monthly performance was not just a musical showcase; it was my chance to give back to the community and to help enrich the seniors’ life. The true joy in my life is not just sharing music, but devoting myself to community services as a volunteer.

“hELLo! whAT’S YoUr NAmE?” “pEN-YUAN hSING.” I see The Expression, then hear The response: “What?” Starting the first grade in the US without knowing a single word of English, going back to Taiwan three years later incapable of recognizing a single Chinese character is not exactly an ideal circumstance for blending in. For many years, I 78   was always the quiet one sitting in the corner, the one who few people talked to, the one out of the loop. I was the “local alien.” I opt to join the Earth Science Club during my first year in Lishan High School, as I always had an interest in astronomy, which happened to be the focus of that year’s club activities. I didn’t know the weekly gathering time of our club was also an elective Earth Science course that students from other high schools could attend. I certainly did not realize what a big impact this arrangement would have on me. near the end of the first semester, I was approached by a girl from a neighboring school who attended this earth science course. She asked if I wanted to join her on an environmental survey of Taiwan’s Keelung coast conducted by an organization called Taipei Wetnet. For a moment I hesitated, I literally had no experience in responding to invitations. What suddenly came out of my mouth surprised me, “Sure, what time?” For the next three years I spent in Taipei Wetnet, I gained not only a close friend, knowledge about the problems our environment faced, but perhaps most importantly found a group of people who shared the same convictions, who are passionate about the same thing, the plight of our precious planet. A year after being introduced to this organization, I was its coordinator and presented my first academic paper at an environmental education conference. I learned that I don’t always have to be the quiet one in the corner, that I do and can have things to share with everyone else. I don’t have to fear. I often think about how I managed to say yes on that fateful day. Was it just because of a pretty face? Or maybe there has always been a special part of me that wanted to get out, and she was instrumental in “flipping the switch.” This eye-opening experience and what I learned from it is what I desperately want to share with the world. Perhaps, somewhere out there is another quiet person in the corner just waiting to be found. A switch waiting to be flipped. You just have to find it, flip it, and make the world a brighter, warmer place.

ThE coLd mId-AUGUST SAN FrANcISco BAY fog was just beginning to roll in over Piedmont as I snapped the cover shut on Jennings Burch’s book “They Cage the Animals at night,” the most recent addition to my “get ready for 7th grade summer reading extravaganza.” It is a story about a young boy who lives in various orphanages and foster homes with only his stuffed animal, Doggie, for companionship. My cousin from Connecticut had told me that it was a fabulous book, but little did I know how it would touch my life and the lives of others. As I gazed across my room at the pile of stuffed animals I had been collecting since I was young, an idea came to me. I would collect stuffed animals for children like Jennings. First, I contacted local agencies that support children suffering from abuse and neglect and told them about my idea. They said that the stuffed animals would be very helpful in therapy and would certainly lift children’s spirits. I decided to call my project “Cuddle Buddies.” now I actually had to come up with the “buddies”! I wrote articles for the local and school newspapers, telling Jennings’ story and asking for donations of stuffed animals. My phone rang off the hook; schools, families, local businesses and toy manufacturers all wanted to help. Much to my delight this project took the Bay Area by storm. By the second week my living room looked like a zoo with animals tucked in every corner and on top of each chair. Every time my mom and I made deliveries to the agencies, the kids would be waiting for their Cuddle Buddies with their eyes down, too shy to look but shaking with excitement. Six years after its launch, Cuddle Buddies continues to expand. Each year I solicit from more toy companies and communities. now over 25,000 stuffed animals have been donated to agencies in the Bay Area and Connecticut, emergency units, two orphanages in Africa and one in germany. At the Saidia Children’s Home in Kenya, Simon, a seven year old, whose parents died from AIDS, couldn’t sleep at night. When the Cuddle Buddies were laid out for him to choose from, Simon selected a grey koala bear and soon after was sleeping through the night. My heart ached when I learned that a young girl in Oakland had stopped cutting herself so she could get the big black   8: Community Service 81 dog that she wanted so badly. I never dreamed that Cuddle Buddies would be used in these ways. Knowing that I would be going on to college and that others my age could do what I have done, I decided to expand Cuddle Buddies. To spread the word beyond the Bay Area I designed a website, www. cuddlebuddies.net, and contacted newspapers and Tv stations across the nation. The response was overwhelming. I heard from kids, parents, agencies and even The girls Scouts. I am now helping to establish two dozen Cuddle Buddies  s from Utah to north Carolina. This has been a great experience. I have learned how to follow through on an idea, how to champion a cause and how to deal with setbacks. But most importantly, I have learned how easy it is to positively impact a life and the joy that comes from it. I will go to college with these lessons in mind and hope to continue my work with Cuddle Buddies, even as I engage in a whole new set of exciting academic and nonacademic pursuits

ThE GIANT BrowN BEAr wAS crEEpING quietly behind the blissfully pink duck ready to wring his bare paws around her neck and throw her into a pot of boiling stew. We turned the page. While I chuckled at the impracticality of a bear boiling water to eat a duck, especially a pink duck, I lifted my head to find Matthew tiptoeing about the room exhibiting the meanest, most ferocious look his cute face could conjure. All the while, little Monica sat huddled next to my arm honestly afraid to turn the page and find her favorite pink creature in a bear’s “tummy.” It was one of those moments of my hours spent reading with children at the library when it dawned just how much, as a “grown up,” I was missing. I remembered the Thursday when victoria bounded into the reading room showcasing in her small hands a golden certificate from school.   8: Community Service 83 “Best reader,” it glistened. A smile came across my face as I looked into the eyes of the petite 7-year old who just last year had been held back in first grade because her reading was not up to par. It was the same smile that had filled my face six months prior, when victoria joined the reading program and I saw the other volunteers instantly point at me. Our supervisor had agreed with them, knowing I would use my patient disposition and friendly way with children to motivate our new student. I had nodded vigorously, smiling, not only because I was proud of the confidence they had in me, but because nothing would make me happier than taking on the challenge of helping victoria improve her reading. After spending the first session responding to an unrelenting stream of questions, I recognized that victoria’s talkative nature and impatience for answers overshadowed her desire to sit down and read. I treasured her energy and insatiable curiosity and fueled it with my own enthusiasm. Yet, for every interest she presented, I took her to scan the library shelves in search of a related book. I watched her eyes grow with excitement as I tirelessly helped her press through the stories, a journey in search of her answers. Some of the books I chose were difficult for her, but we read through them together, challenging limits and quenching the thirst for knowledge. In books, I told her time and again, she would find all she wanted to know. Taking her certificate in my hands, I couldn’t help but be proud that part of this glittering piece of paper was likely my doing. My thoughts were interrupted by victoria’s chant. “I got best reader!” she exclaimed over and over jumping between feet as her arms waved from side to side. Without hesitation, I followed. Holding her certificate up for all to see, I matched my footing with hers as we hopped the length of the room giggling. Whether it is victory celebrations or talking in different voices, whenever I am with these kids, I find myself being pulled into their childhood world—a world of simplicity, of undying curiosity, and of pure innocence. It is a world in which if everything is not perfect, it definitely can be. And with a simple “prayer to god” or “kiss on the boo-boo” it will be. Though I go in each week to be these kids’ teacher, I come out, having been their student. They have introduced me to a side of me I never realized existed. 84   As I enter college, it is not only my intelligence or my accumulated knowledge, but also the kid in me who will bring success. This child will jump to try every new activity with an enthusiasm that cannot fade. She will ask questions of everything she sees, of everything she hears and of everything she reads. She will dream big and for every step she stumbles upon towards that dream, she will get right back up and step again, this time, a little more carefully. And she will do all this, approach every life hurdle or triumph with a smile- a big contagious smile.

EVErY SUNdAY morNING, ThE LocAL STArBUcKS plays host to what my mom likes to call “mother-son bonding time.” This Sunday is no different. My mom and I sit down with our regular Chai Latte and Caramel Frappuchino, and absorb the aroma of the coffee beans and the gentle rays of the winter sun. “So Alex, what are we going to do for dad’s 50th birthday?” When my mom asks a question about upcoming plans, she doesn’t expect an answer; she already has something in mind. Many years ago, my mom started a family tradition of making gifts personal: poems, songs, skits. At first I didn’t understand why we were wasting so much time when we could just buy a gift card from the local mall. But my outlook changed when I turned twelve. For my birthday, my parents gave me a poster, a product of their many hours on Photoshop. With long hair, sideburns, and a slim suit, I had become the fifth member of the Beatles crossing Abbey road. Every morning when I wake up, this poster opposite my bed is the first thing I see, and I start off the day with a smile. Since 88   then, I have needed little persuasion to start working on the next gift project. Actually, I even look forward to these times, when my parents find their inner children, and the trivial worries of life simply whisk away. My dad, both figuratively and literally, ditches his office suit and proper manners, and dons a red woman’s wig and high heels to practice a scene. My mom stops scolding my sister and me, and joins us in our ruckus, doing the jitterbug and blowing on a harmonica. These are the moments in my family when there are no children or adults, just four people who give in to their creative urges. “How about throwing Dad a party, and making him a movie?” my mom asks as I use my straw to fish for any remaining coffee at the bottom of the cup. “Just think of a movie you like and we’ll parody it.” A big fan of “the-life-is-like-a-box-of-chocolates” theory, I suggest my favorite movie, Forrest gump. She smiles. “OK, but only if you play Forrest.” When we come home, my mom takes down a box, heavy with the dust of age, scribbled with messy russian lettering. I peer over her shoulder as she empties onto the living room floor the contents: my dad’s life story in black and white. Within minutes, I am completely immersed in the photographs I have never seen before. As I gape at a picture of a bearded teenager laughing with his friends, I do a double take. Is this the same clean-shaven man who helped me to prove the theorem that all right angles are congruent and always tells me to tuck in my shirt? I shake my head in disbelief as I thumb through some pictures of my dad and his friends with guitars in the forest singing songs around a camp fire. My mom explains that the Soviet government didn’t approve of these songs, so the woods became their only refuge. I am now starting to understand why my dad, limited in what he could sing or say as a youth, pushes my sister and me to ask probing questions, survey news from all sides of the political spectrum, and watch controversial movies. Looking down at one of the pictures of my dad in the forest, it just hits me: the movie should be called “Forest guy.” With each picture comes its own story, and collectively, they create a collage of my dad’s past that I had never known. But even more surprises await me as I watch documentaries about russian leaders in the 20th century. To truly parody Forrest gump, some “great” Communist leaders must be part of Forest guy’s life, just as Kennedy and nixon were part of Forrest gump’s. Coming up with bizarre ideas of how   9: Family 89 my dad met the Communist leaders is the most entertaining part of our moviemaking. My stomach throbs with laughter as I conceive the impossible notion of my dad bullying gorbachev into destroying the Berlin Wall. Along with russian history, I also discover part of my family’s: while discussing the horrors of Stalin’s reign with my mom, I am shocked to hear that my father was born in exile, and one of his uncles died in Stalin’s concentration camp for joking about Communists. It’s hard to believe that someone can be killed for cracking a joke, when cracking a safe will only get you a few years in jail. Luckily, when I am joking about Lenin and Stalin in my film, my only worry is crowd response. It is the day of the party, and as I look around at the apprehensive crowd, my instincts yell, “run, Alex! run!” Soon, the lights dim, and my anxiety grows. I am watching the viewers as intensely as they are watching the screen. As each joke is met with uproarious laughter and table slapping, my breaths become calmer and my fingers stop shaking. Twenty-five minutes later, I hear the long awaited ovation. I gaze from table to table at the sea of smiles, but one face catches my attention. It is my dad’s, showing complete disbelief that something so grandiose could be done about him and for him. All these weeks I had been so focused on the guests’ reactions that I never thought about my dad’s. Although he is trying hard to contain himself, I see a tear sneak from the side of his eye. It is the first time I have seen my dad cry. Yes, life is a box of chocolates. Some are delicious, some too bitter for your taste. But the best are like the one I picked that day; they seem like any other chocolate, but when you bite into them, they surprise you with an unexpected flavor.

EVErY YEAr, mY chrISTmAS wISh LIST would read, “Dear Santa, all I want for Christmas is a baby brother.” At age nine, I knew Santa had to be real because, one day, my mom announced that she was pregnant. After ten years of being an only child, I could not have anticipated how much my life would change because of a little brother. I received the honor of naming him, and I chose Jason. In retrospect, I should have named my brother “Ivan the Terrible.” Jason followed me everywhere like an irritating shadow. My grievances to my mom were countless, especially after Jason drew all over my bedroom walls and murdered my pet fish, goldie. My mom’s typical response was, “Well, isn’t this what you’ve always wished for?” Jason’s mischief reached a new height one morning when I became the victim of a five year old with scissors. I stared into the bathroom mirror and dunked my head under cold water to make sure I was not dreaming. What I saw enraged me! In the middle of the night, Michael had cut off five inches of my long, black hair from one side of my head. I stood in horror, and stormed to the kitchen where I found the rest of my family calmly eating breakfast. I flashed a menacing stare at my brother, who snickered across the table. “You’re going to pay for this!” I screamed. Furious beyond words, I could not even begin to describe my rage. Instead, I ran back to the bathroom and huddled on the floor. “What am I going to do?” I was irate and panicked at the same time. As a freshman in high school, I was very sensitive about my appearance. I had been hesitant to cut my hair past the “tips to take away the split-ends” trim, because my hair had been the same length for seven years. I agonized over the situation and concocted my swift counter-attack. Instead of chopping off his hair, I found inspiration to appease my anger in the pages of Teen magazine and considered trendy hairstyles. My brother was stunned because I did not retaliate. victory was mine. Because of experiences such as this, I have learned to adapt, to keep my focus, and to solve problems with little or no resources. I approach tough situations with objectivity and determination. Like many other experiences with my brother and at school, I have dealt with difficult 92   situations and turned them into positive opportunities for change. I am flexible with the circumstances given to me, and I strive for the best outcome. Despite the craziness Santa’s gift brings, Jason’s continuous surprises provide laughter to my life. As for my hair, I did cut off the five inches from the other side, and I actually cherished the new look better. Thanks, Santa.

mY FAmILY hAS TAKEN LIVING IN the big city as a reason for why we should never give up. Here in Los Angeles there are countless individuals and families along all points on the immigration spectrum from recent arrivals to recent citizenship. residing in this great city has provided me with diversity, opportunity, acceptance, and an abundance of role models to follow through all troubles- big and small. I always thought that I had it the worst out of all my family members because I was never allowed to get anything lower than what my brother or a cousin had gotten in a class. My parents figured if they could do it, so could I, and if not on my own then with a little of their help. It was not until recently that I realized the truth in this. In my short life I have seen my father go from speaking no English, to excelling in it. I have heard countless stories about migrant farmers such as Cesar Chavez and my grandfather who had nearly nothing, yet persisted and succeeded. growing up hearing these stories of great injustices and misfortunes has truly influenced my long term goals. I am going to go far because there is no excuse for not doing my best, given all I have been blessed 94   with. When I had trouble speaking Spanish and felt like abandoning my native tongue I remembered my mother and how when she came to the United States she was forced to wash her mouth out with soap and endure beatings with a ruler by the nuns at her school for speaking it. When I couldn’t figure out tangents, sines, and cosines I thought about my father and how it took him nearly a year to learn long division because he was forced to teach it to himself after dropping out and starting to work in the 4th grade. And when I wanted to quit swimming because I was tired I remembered my grandfather and how no matter how his muscles ached if he stopped digging, or picking fruit, or plowing he risked not having enough food to feed his family. Pursuing technical fields such as math and engineering first seemed like work for men to me, but the times have changed. All these people, just from my family have been strong role models for me. I feel that being labeled “underprivileged” does not mean that I am limited in what I can do. There is no reason for me to fail or give up, and like my parents and grandparents have done, I’ve been able to pull through a great deal. My environment has made me determined, hard working, and high aiming. I would not like it any other way. This is how my Hispanic heritage, family upbringing, and role models have influenced my academic and personal long term goals.

“hErITAGE” IS ThE FIrST word IN my family dictionary, a noun and adverb, for who we are and how we live. My parents taught me that my heritage defines my identity. Through honorific speech towards my elders and adherence to traditional values, I accepted Korean customs as part of the duality that defines my life in America. Yet, a turbulent disunity stormed under that surface of peaceful coexistence. Though I outwardly represented the model Korean-American son, I loathed fitting this stereotypical mold. My shell was so well-constructed, however, that others mistook me for a successful immigrant. I felt as if I were ripped from the very fabric of my American birthplace, and plunged into a vacuum between my ancestral home and the world I lived in. I felt that my heritage was a short anchor against the relentlessly rising tide: I had to break free—or go under. 98   While struggling with this chain, however, I came to appreciate what my heritage offered. As a martial arts instructor, I supported students in building discipline and character. As a bilingual tutor, I helped immigrant children adapt to life in America. Soon, I realized that my heritage was an instrument for harmonizing personal development with service to others. When I was selected to serve in the HOBY World Leadership Congress, my family’s financial circumstances did not cover the $1,350 required fee. By infusing my American entrepreneurial energy with Asian medicine, I covered the cost by selling herbal products at my martial arts studio. Though the novelty of my venture brought me to the verge of bankruptcy, I persisted. By researching products, competitors and clientele, I streamlined my inventory to best serve my customers. Eventually, I created a business aimed at offering others a healthy lifestyle. Sweaty students gulped green tea and chocolate-flavored snacks, dropping dollars for the cause that lay within my cardboard cashbox. Supported by outside donations, I became greater L.A.’s ambassador in Washington D.C. Infused with new inspiration, I returned with a project grant to spread the martial arts lifestyle of discipline, confidence, and respect. As my heritage anchored itself to the bedrock of my battles, I integrated Korean tradition with my American identity. Fusing service with civic duty, I entered the L.A. County Sheriff’s Explorer Academy. Through the grueling training, I learned to work as part of a team. Appointed as Drill Instructor a year later, I took command of training the older recruits. Through a relationship of mutual respect, I prepared my platoon to dutifully serve the community. Leading this racially mixed group, I empathized beyond the duality of my own identity. I soon discovered that my heritage must transcend my personal struggles to truly embrace diversity. Heritage is not a mere ethnic label—it is the honor and humanity that I am inspired to uphold. Today, I am grateful to my parents for endowing me with a spirit of dedication and determination. They bestowed a philosophy that speaks through my actions. This inheritance forms the base of my integrity as an individual, and defines my dedication to strengthening the society that I live in

ThE TITLE oF ThIS pIcTUrE IS “Abuelo” which means grandfather in Spanish. At first glance, it seems just a waste of a snapshot. Perhaps just another struggling photographer trying to pay the rent or who simply had one more shot left in a roll of film and took a random picture. It is an 8" by 11" color photograph of a man’s neck, more specifically the back of his neck. It is quite wrinkled and brown and white hair has invaded the scalp. At first I questioned why the photographer did not simply take a picture of his grandfather’s face. A face would allow viewers to see what the grandfather looks like and tell some kind of story, certainly more than what the back of his neck could possibly tell. What I came to realize is that this is no random shot. What this picture wants is for me to imagine and to create a story. It does not necessarily wish to be framed but the picture does not want to be overlooked or neglected. It wants to be given a chance to prove itself as equally worthy as any other photograph. I do not need the face of the Abuelo to imagine the story of his life or personality. The back of his neck is just as important as his face. After spending some time with this Abuelo I learned that the back of his neck is not just brown, it is tanned. not just a natural tan, that some people are born with, but a particular shade of tan that can only be attained after continuous exposure to the sun. Perhaps this man does a lot of work outside. The distinguished wrinkles are more than just lines. In between them there seems to be some kind of dust. I recognize this dust because it is the kind of dust my father gets when he is working with joint compound. After examining a little more closely I noticed the multiple scars on his scalp which prevent his hair from growing. The tiny hole in his earlobe reminds me that he was young once and had, like many young teenage boys, pierced his ear. Around his neck I can see a glimpse of a brown necklace. This necklace is very familiar to me because I own one. It is a very thin string with a small rectangular cloth at both ends. Many Catholics believe that it is something sacred. In this case this picture is not measured by the thousands of words it is worth, but it is measured by what I took from it. It should not be   10: Heritage and Identity 101 criticized by what it does not have but should be valued for what it does have. I have found something in common with this photograph. All along what this picture wanted from me was to find something familiar. That familiarity sets this particular picture apart from all other photographs I have encountered and what has kept it vividly visible after having come across it years ago. This is exactly what this photograph longed for: to be found familiar and remembered.

I hAVE ALwAYS BEEN comForTABLE wITh Tae Kwon Do, music, art, and friends. However, as a horse in Chinese astrology, I also need to explore different pursuits, and step outside of my comfort zone. This summer, I ventured beyond the pasture of my comfort zone, and participated onstage in the high school summer musical for the first time. The biggest challenge of taking this leap was overcoming my own mental barrier—the sign that read, Jean, you have never had a dance lesson; you have no idea how to sing or act. Out of fear that I would feel uncomfortable, I believed that playing violin in the pit orchestra was my calling. However, after three years of pit orchestra experience, I longed to shine in that coveted spotlight. I did not tell my friends about how I wondered what it would feel like to act onstage in front of eight hundred people. When I saw that the title of the musical for this past summer was Anything goes, I knew that no one would think worse of me for following my aspirations. Confident that my friends would encourage me, I let go of my cautious Chinese approach to life, and let the free-spirited horse within me escape. Despite my decision to participate in the musical, I was terrified. I wondered whether I would meet any friends and if I would be able to learn to sing and dance well. My fears were intensified because I missed the first week of rehearsals while at a leadership conference in new York City. When I attended my first rehearsal, arriving directly from new York City, my fortitude kept me steady. With confidence and new York City memories in my heart, I joined the rest of the cast and reveled in the excitement. I followed my new friends with a passion for an art form that I hardly knew, but willingly embraced. From that moment on, I was a horse freely cantering around an open meadow. I had discovered a new point of view, and the grass was   10: Heritage and Identity 103 greener than it had ever seemed. Some days, I came home with new dance steps to show my parents. On other days, I drew the designs of my costumes when my descriptions at the dinner table would not suffice. The make-up artist tried three times to find the right blush, while the hair team created a different style for me each night. Having to think up a new hairstyle each time was parallel to my shifting opinion of my life and self. Although participating in the musical was initially petrifying, I discovered that taking such a risk was the optimal way to grow and change. now, I will not shy away from being in a musical cast because my comfort zone is expanding. Soon it will encompass the grand scope of my interests: from singing and dancing to throwing a sales pitch in front of judges; from learning how to execute precision front-flips to building my favorite piano repertoire; from designing a webpage to arranging chamber music, or developing optics technologies. Such passions will continue to define who I am and what I hope to achieve. My character is being shaped and reshaped by my learning experiences because I am an impressionable human being. As I continue to explore, I know that my interests will solidify into a cohesive whole. Until then, I seek to enrich myself with new opportunities and never look back.

EVErY FAmILY hAS ThEIr STorY, ALL with aspects that brings them together or drive them apart. I come from a Mexican family, where family is the only thing we know. We share each other’s pain and misery and we rejoice for our miracles. We learn and grow through each other.   10: Heritage and Identity 105 Even through the darkest days we survive as one. I witnessed those dark days, but I also saw the bright and through it all I evolved into who I am today. I encountered one of my biggest obstructions when I was a child. I was born into a family that had immigrated to America from Mexico. Although my parents had been in the country for quite some time, they never adapted to the American lifestyle. All I knew was Spanish and my first year of school would soon come. I would sit at the end of my driveway and listen to the variety of sounds that slowly crept into my ear, triggered a reaction and sent confusion running through my mind. Day after day, I would sit there trying to decode this puzzle word by word and the day came when I’d be shipped off to school where I was expected to know English. Kindergarten was one of the hardest years in my life. I struggled tremendously. I was the last one to know my address, I was the last one to know my phone number, and I was the one who almost failed his first year of school. If it wasn’t for my father not allowing the school to hold me back, I could have become a completely different person. I struggled throughout my years in elementary school. I went to resource and received help with my schoolwork until fourth grade. I was given a big push forward and since then I have come to realize that I may not be the only one in need. Others will need help and I will be there with a helping hand. Through the years, my family has undergone a variety of obstacles. I saw my brother completely stumble and fall when he impregnated his girlfriend at the age of sixteen. At the blink of an eye he became a father to be and a husband. Everything came to a halt and he needed to support another person. He worked during the night and finished high school during the day. He struggled even while living at home. As if one example in my house wasn’t enough, my sister was expecting a child during her senior year. I remember the day when she told my parents, I was in the room next door crying in pain because she fell into the same trap my brother did. That was the end for her. She graduated from high school and began to work. now she has two daughters and is trying to make a living. It is hard to see the people you love make mistakes. It is so hard, that it brings tears to my eyes, to know that you wish you could say everything will be ok. They are stuck in a rut and I am putting my best foot forward to give myself the future they don’t have. 106   When my mother was a child she had suffered a great amount. She had become deaf in her teenage years. She lost complete ability to hear in her right ear and partially in the left and to add to all the confusion she was bound by a language. She was living in America with 4 of 5 senses and a tongue that many could not speak. Many would see this as a huge dent in her life, but she managed to start a family. I could not be any more proud of her and thankful for what she has given me. Her “disability” placed a tremendous amount of pressure on my shoulders. She was not able to go to the deli or to place phone calls when she needed to. All of a sudden, all of this had become my responsibility. My father was too busy breaking his back in order to support our family. My mother’s personal translator, doesn’t sound too shabby? Standing in the middle of the store, making hand jesters, mouthing out words, or even yelling, does attract attention. In those moments I would feel a surge of heat rush from head to toe, goose bumps in every possible crevice of my body, and to top it all off I’d be seven shades darker than a ripe tomato. Shame and embarrassment, how could I feel this way? All this had become routine and the pain and embarrassment finally started to subside, a whole new feeling started to emerge, pride. My mother made me strong. She allowed me to become the man I am today. And after all the pain there are still countless nights that I lie in bed, crying due to the burden that was placed on her and the tremendous lesson I learned. Every sound, every beat, every photon, every little everything has been absorbed into me one way or another, yet these experiences, although insignificant to others, mean to world to me. All these events run through my veins and pump through my heart. I am the passion that is rarely seen. I am the walking story of struggle.

I coNSIdEr mYSELF To BE mATUrE and focused in my life; I have goals that I strive for and a strong commitment to my education. However, I do have my more humorous moments, just as everyone else. For instance, a few summers ago, my family and I were in Las vegas on vacation. The over-the-top looking-by-night, eyesore-by-day city was lighted everywhere, and masses of people were walking along the Las vegas Strip. One night, we went out to dinner and were walking back to our hotel. When we got to the entrance of the hotel, which had automatic sliding doors, there was a huge line waiting to get in, yet there were many other doors to its side unoccupied. So, naturally, I said aloud, “Why don’t we just go through those doors,” as I pointed towards the unoccupied doors. My family just waited patiently, but I decided to go by myself, so I did, and I walked straight into the EXIT door. I am not sure who was more injured, myself, or my sister who collapsed onto the floor in convulsive laughter. I still have not heard the end of this story, but at least now I can laugh at myself. Many times 110   people get discouraged in their hectic and stress-filled lives, but sometimes you just need a dim-witted accident to occur to put everything in perspective.

On the morning of October 2, 2008, at precisely 7:00 A.M., a Miss Lauren Sanders began to worry. Her future-self entered the gates of a prestigious university in the fall of 2009 and had not returned home. Miss Sanders filed a missing person’s report, hoping someone could help her to locate her future-self in a world of possibilities. The case began with a grueling interrogation of Miss Lauren Sanders, the person who knew most about her future-self. However, the questioning session yielded little information. Miss Sanders could not fully describe herself in the future. Pressured, she stated that “she has the ambition to fulfill all of her goals, is both stubborn and industrious, and wants to experience University life.” Miss Sanders lacked a photograph of her future-self, but remarked that “she has brown hair, likes to describe herself as vertically-challenged, and is usually smiling.” nOTE: While unable to describe her future-self, Miss Sanders believed that examination of past experiences could possibly assist the admissions officers in the case. According to Miss Sanders, her future-self has “volunteered in her community and traveled on a global scale.” Physical evidence collected during a thorough search of Miss Sander’s bedroom included a Dell laptop, a collection of Jane Austin novels, worn textbooks, and an I-pod. Fingerprinting analysis and DnA processing determined that these items belong to both Miss Sanders and her future-self, and that they use these items frequently. Despite biological traces of the future-self found within the home, laboratory analysis concluded that Miss Sanders’ future-self does not reside within her hometown. With information gathered from the physical search of Miss Sanders’ home and Miss Sanders’ interrogation, a database search was conducted 112   to determine possible universities in which Miss Sanders’ future-self resided. Within minutes, Duke University appeared as a match. With this lead, authorities conducted numerous searches at Duke University in Durham, north Carolina, probing the dorms, library, and classrooms. All searches yielded nothing, yet the possibility of finding Miss Sanders’ future-self remains strong. Professors and students alike, when questioned about Miss Sanders’ future-self, strongly believe that many individuals like her come to the University to find their potential paths. Further examination will be needed to complete this investigation, including a thorough inspection of Miss Sanders’ resume and letters of recommendation. Hopefully, the leads that we have will direct us to the whereabouts of her future-self. nOTE: According to Miss Sanders, the future-self plans to travel on a foreign-exchange student program and hopes to conduct research in one of the many labs available to undergraduates. At present, these areas have not been searched by professionals. On the morning of October 2, 2009, at precisely 7:04 A.M., the admissions officers found Miss Lauren Sanders’ future-self at Duke University. She had hidden in the incoming student body

AFTEr SpENdING A wEEK wITh JohN nash, I may have stumbled upon a central purpose of my life. Well, not nobel Laureate John nash himself, but whenever I describe Fred, their characteristics seem quite parallel. Fred is unique, possessing an indomitable spirit to fulfill his dreams without fear of failure. not only is he the most brilliant young man I have ever met, he exhibits a genuinely compassionate heart. Sadly, many people may never recognize Fred as the beautiful individual that he is, or what he has to offer. While our society may call him “challenged,” I have come to recognize him as an unexpected role model. For Fred, you see, is autistic. He does not interact well with people, and is often unable to express his thoughts clearly or articulately. He doesn’t understand why people laugh at him. Yet even so, Fred is blessed with an acute sense of purpose and caring that is unmatched by most—including perhaps even the most altruistic among us. 116   Several years ago I traveled with a small group of Fairfax County high school students to Portland, Oregon to compete as a Finalist in the Intel International Science and Engineering Fair. I was excited at what was certain to be an experience of a lifetime—having no clue that the most valuable lesson would come not from the Science Fair itself, but from Fred. Because of my prior experiences in working with special needs children, the school administrators asked me to room with Fred during the trip. I distinctly recall my initial anxiety and reluctance about the prospect of taking care of another individual during the stressful, high-pressure atmosphere of the competition. In retrospect, though, this was the beginning of an incredible journey for both of us—but especially for me. Fred’s passion—actually more of an obsession—is theoretical mathematics. He eats, breathes, talks, and probably sleeps mathematics, to the point where he annoys others by his constant chatter about it. His idea of fun is solving differential equations on a napkin in a fancy restaurant, oblivious to others wanting to socialize or relax. That Fred is brilliant is unquestioned, a fact that was clearly evidenced in his science project where he solved a math problem previously believed by experts to be insolvable. Yet in his own mind Fred firmly believed his entire raison d’etre in life was the pursuit of math—and that he was destined to use his incredible mathematical ability to help make the world better. However, Fred’s disabilities were only a fraction of the challenges that faced him. growing up in a dysfunctional home, he suffered from a lack of love and patient understanding. Still, Fred’s life revolved around his relationships and mathematics. Although he has few close friends, people are indescribably important to him, and he always treated them with sensitivity and compassion. Unfortunately, some people—including but not limited to his peers (who can sometimes be quite cruel)— are unable to set aside their prejudices long enough to see his uniqueness as the incredible gift that it is. His enthusiasm and his indomitable spirit in the face of adversity taught me valuable lessons—lessons I will carry with me for the rest of my life. He taught me to live for what you truly cherish, to be passionate about your dreams, and to always smile in both the service of others and adversity. He has shown me the truest meaning of love for others, and the ability to understand and always   12: An Influential Person 117 live for what is important. A trip that started with me “taking care of him” turned into a trip of substantial personal discovery. Children with special needs have powerful talents, and if we could only open our hearts to hear their voices, we would learn what it means to live without conventional boundaries. I have lived a week with a genius, not only of the mind, but more importantly, of the heart—and my life has been permanently changed because of Fred.

I GrEw Up IN A FoUr-room apartment in the middle of Beijing at the turn of the twentieth century. Common household features such as the existence of stairs within a house were thought of as decadent luxuries representative of the incredibly wealthy. My life was simple. At five years old, it was differentiated by two things, the times I was with my mother and the times I was not. My single mother was a chemist and professor at the University of Beijing. Even at a young age, she distinguished herself from her peers   12: An Influential Person 119 with her remarkable ambition and intense passion for learning. From growing up in the frigid winds of northern Mongolia, to becoming one of three students to earn a full scholarship to China’s most competitive university, to working as a government-sponsored chemist in goslar, germany, my mother accomplished more before I was born than most people achieved in a lifetime. Unfortunately, I would not learn of the fabulous successes and arduous trials of my mother until much, much later. All I could understand or not understand at five years old was why my mother was rarely home, why I did not see her for three months during the summer when I lived with my grandparents, and why I was forced to go to a daycare owned by a tyrannical monster who would tell ghost stories to make me cry. Even now, much of my knowledge about my mother’s early life is something I am still piecing together. As was the case then, my full understanding of her brilliant yet ill-tempered persona is continually hindered by the simple troubles of life. Although now, they are the issues of an eighteen-year old teenager rather than those of a five-year old child. I remember nights we would spend together when she was busy with her research and classes; I would sit in a desk next to her, drawing pictures and imagine that I was her personal assistant. I also remember times when I had to stay home alone because she had a lecture to give or errands to run; I would lean against the window sill staring down into the bleak, concrete streets waiting and watching for the return of a petite form in a bright red jacket. Yet despite the forlorn days and the lonely nights, I feel neither regret nor resentment towards those early years or my mother. On the contrary, I am incredibly proud and grateful for all the difficulties she endured in order to raise me properly. Had it not been for my childhood experiences, I would not have matured at such an early age or developed such a strong sense of independence. We moved to America in the spring of 1997. The transition of cultures was daunting yet it failed to dishearten my mother. Like every other experience in her life, she treated the move as an opportunity. However, even my mother was not immune to the overwhelming cultural shock, and despite her perseverance and accomplishments, she continually struggled with the language barrier and the difference in societal values. 120   While my mother was forced to labor against such changes, my young age enabled me to adapt quickly to the new environment. Unfortunately, my “Americanization” has caused a great deal of mystification and incomprehension in my mother. not only do our manners of speaking differ, but we no longer view traditional beliefs the same way. Her lack of encouragement for my participation in athletics and her excessive emphasis on my grades have been both frustrating and upsetting. From my gregarious nature and social outings to my obdurate refusals to comply with her every long-established demand, she has been forced to accept the evolution of her daughter from that of Chinese doll to American teenager. nevertheless, despite our various differences and my acute assimilation into another culture, I have never lost sight of what mattered most to me, nor forgotten the roots of my heritage and rigorous upbringing. My mother’s persistence and endurance are qualities which I have proudly assumed and carried with me in every activity of my life. From facing the ignorant racisms of elementary classmates to the malicious jealousies of middle school peers, I have never doubted or second guessed the work ethic and moral code that she instilled in me. Her resourcefulness has also been highly influential and taught me of the importance of seeking opportunities. Whether it was working along side Philadelphia Inquirer journalists or researching marketing strategies for a startup company, I have learned and developed with each success and letdown encountered throughout my middle and high school years. The difficulties of my mother and the difficulties that I faced in two countries on two continents continue to define and shape my personality and character. As mother and daughter continue along the journey of life, I hope that she can come to accept and embrace the daughter whom she has so diligently raised while I hope to slowly unravel the full mystery that is my mother and, one day, finally comprehend and appreciate the entirety of her effect on my life.

AS I SAT AT A TABLE in the corner of a cafe, hunched over a press release I was writing, I asked myself, “Why is a youth advocate from Long Island, halfway around the world in South Africa this summer, debating issues of sustainable development at a United nations conference?” I needed to meet a deadline for the Youth Caucus at the World Summit on Sustainable Development (WSSD) after an exhausting but exhilarating day of lobbying. My goal was to help persuade world leaders at the largest United nations conference in history that pursuing sustainable development is essential for the future of our planet. Because I had attended a previous Un conference about children’s rights, I understood the importance of sustainable development in this context. Then, I was chosen to represent SustainUS, a national network of American youth, at the WSSD. I raised all of the money needed for my trip. I was thrilled to witness the human spirit in its purest sense, taking collective action to care for the less fortunate around the globe. 124   It was one thing to debate language in the conference document about goals set to provide people in developing nations with access to water. It was quite another to visit Soweto, only a few kilometers away from the conference, and to meet poor Africans living in shanties with limited access to water. This observation embedded in my mind the seriousness of my work in a way that no statistic could describe. The challenge on paper seemed quite different from the harshness of Soweto and Alexandria and the long-suffering faces and pleading eyes of the beggars there. I reminded myself that I needed to work around the clock while I was in South Africa to help these impoverished people. After arriving in Johannesburg this past August, I traveled to the International Youth Summit. I drafted the youth declaration which was used for lobbying, and I helped to write a statement from the youth delegates for government representatives to read and consider while negotiating. While at the WSSD, aside from writing daily press releases that became Associated Press and reuters articles, I drafted speeches which were presented to the delegates, including over one hundred heads of state. I experienced an adrenaline rush when I fielded questions from reporters during a press conference. These challenging situations were new learning opportunities for me and provided me with knowledge much different from what one learns in high school. I want to learn more about the histories of international financial institutions and the ways they interact with national governments. As a result of my attending the World Summit, I have gained a new perspective on global politics and its effects on people’s lives. The thought that people from around the world can join together to solve a global issue never fails to impress and inspire me. My participation in the WSSD has taught me more about the convergence of politics, international relations and the environment than I have learned in any other activity or in the classroom. Working with others to reveal the crucial need for sustainable development is essential to our world’s successful future. All of my experiences have helped me to understand how international meetings operate and to accept the responsibility that comes with the privilege to attend and contribute to the solution.

NoVEmBEr 23, Two YEArS AGo: ThANKSGIVING. My mom and I celebrated the holiday as we had done for the last three years—by delivering turkey dinners to homebound senior citizens. After carrying the food to their kitchens, our brief visits with them were filled with laughter, hugs, and the sharing of family photo albums. In the midst of all the warmth and vitality, though, I couldn’t help noticing the signs of loneliness and isolation: the windows with dust suggesting they hadn’t been open in ages, the faded Christmas cards from 1995, and the tables with a single place setting. It was during these visits that I committed to find a way to better connect with the seniors in my community. I discussed my desire with the mayor of Fremont in December two years ago. He agreed that a younger voice could prove to be beneficial and mentioned the Senior Citizen Commission for the City of Fremont (an advisory board to City Council that worked to directly address the needs of local seniors). I formally applied to the Commission and was unanimously appointed by City Council in February last year, becoming the youngest Commissioner in Fremont’s history. Although I was initially met with skepticism from my fellow Senior Citizen Commissioners, I was committed to sharing my vision of the benefits of intergenerational interactions. For the next two months, my after-school hours were devoted to calling nursing homes, negotiating with movie theater managers, and recruiting teen volunteers. The resulting event was the Senior Movie Outing, which paired teenagers with wheelchair-bound seniors for a fun afternoon at the movies. As a result of my hard work on the successful outing and the rave reviews from all who participated, my fellow Commissioners became more respectful of my contributions and open to my input. During the annual grant-reviewing period (when the Commission decides which   13: Issues 127 non-profit organizations will receive City funding), I advocated to fund Lavender Seniors, an organization which supports gay and lesbian seniors. While it had not previously been funded by the City, I strongly believed it fell within the Commission’s charter of “serving the needs of all seniors.” After sharing my rationale for proposing to fund Lavender Seniors, I was proud that the Commissioners kept an open mind and the majority voted to grant the organization funding. In the two years since my appointment, I have cherished the unique opportunities I have had to learn from people with different perspectives and backgrounds. My time on the Commission has taught me to be more confident when expressing my ideas, and to be more open to hearing others’ thoughts. I am proud to be a trusted voice for seniors in my community.

AT mY AGE, FEw pEopLE cAN genuinely claim that they have had a life-changing experience. After attending Leadership in the Business World (LBW) at the Wharton School last summer, I became one of those fortunate people to have experienced a life-changing academic program. Four weeks of meeting business executives, working with teammates through the night perfecting our professional business plan, experiencing the independence and responsibility that will come with college . . . none of this was advertised in the brochure for LBW, but all of this is what made it uniquely meaningful to me. The business leadership program centered on one culminating activity: the prestigious LBW Business Plan Competition. As we prepared for this, we heard from Wharton faculty members and many corporate heavyweights including Brian roberts, CEO of Comcast Corporation. Meeting educators, executives and entrepreneurs broadened my knowledge of business, created a strategic network of connections and proved profoundly inspiring; nothing motivates me more than see- 130   ing hard work and sharp thinking reach fruition. I vividly remember when a managing director of a venture capital firm singled me out for a networking demonstration. Expecting me merely to pretend to hand him a fake business card, he was dumbfounded by impressed when he glanced back as he accepted an actual business card from my tutoring business. As my business card now rested in Mr. Kimmel’s rolodex next to elegant cards from established businesspeople, a lesson was ingrained in my mind about acting uniquely in order to distinguish myself in a field of equally qualified and eager peers. Despite the inherently competitive nature of LBW, I established enduring friendships with students from far-reaching places, such as Shanghai and Accra. We shared stories over meals in Houston Hall about life at home and engaged in heated discussions about business ethics. regardless of the origin of our passports, we became a family while learning about each other’s cultures and future business aspirations. The lessons of compassion and hard work from the business plan competition also heightened my experience. Once when a fellow marketing officer was struggling with determining channels of distribution for our product, I disregarded trying to seem individually superior, and we cooperatively tackled the problem. Putting the team before the individual was a concept that materialized itself during my experience. The bonds between all of the students and advisors spurred my entrepreneurial spirit as I experienced how friendship supports business. I knew this experience had changed me forever when I triumphantly concluded our team’s business presentation, confidently promoting our product and connecting with a crowd of peers and venture capitalists. During the evening following the presentations, my fellow teammates and I beamed with boundless relief and pride when the vCs announced our team, EnTECH LLC, as the first place winners of the competition. Exploring and honing my business and entrepreneurial skills was intimidating initially, yet with creativity, hard work and an unparalleled group dynamic of cooperation, this experience cemented my passion for business and opened grand doors of opportunity.

“All I know about leadership I learned from . . .” What items could a person use to describe leadership qualities? Inspired by the student council advisors at my high school. STUdENT coUNcIL wAS A BIG pArT of my life in high school. I have participated in it since my first year of high school. When I first joined, I was quiet, naïve, and unwilling to participate in many activities. I was scared to meet new people and afraid to apply myself. This all began to change. Half way through my first year in student council, one of the advisors can up to me and asked why I did not participate that much. I did not have an answer for her and did not know how to respond. After this, I began to think of an answer. I became frustrated and decided to change. I started to show up at events and had a great time. I realized I loved this and wanted to start leading these activities. In my sophomore, junior, and now my senior year of high school, I asserted myself and took on a strong leadership role in student council. I did not figure out the answer to why I was so reserved until this year with the help of this question. When I looked up leadership in the dictionary, it said that it was the capacity to lead and the act or instance of leading. These are two very broad definitions of leadership. Many people have different notions of what this word actually means. When I was challenged to use different items to describe what leadership actually is, I thought this was going to be a hard and obnoxious task. What could I learn from comparing leadership to a stuffed animal or a rubber chicken? But when I sat   14: Leadership 133 down to come up with a couple of answers, I realized that leadership could be compared to almost anything a person wants. All I know about leadership I learned from a calculator. A calculator can add everything together to come up with the best answer. It can delete what is unnecessary and only include what is important. It can solve any type of problem. These are all important equalities a leader has to have. A leader has to be able to add all of the ideas together to make the best possible plan. Leaders have to know how to decipher the good and the bad out of an idea. They have to be versatile and know how to deal with different types of issues. All I know about leadership I learned from a ball. A ball is able to bounce back up after it is dropped. It is round and has no creases. A ball can be thrown back and forth to different people. All of these qualities are also leadership qualities. A leader has to be ready for every situation that is thrown at him or her. He or she has to be able to bounce back from any setbacks and never dwell on the past. Leaders have to exhibit many qualities and never be closed-minded about a situation. A leader must be able to delegate when he or she cannot get the work done. They have to trust everyone they lead to be able to “catch the ball” and keep a project rolling. This activity made me realize that being a leader is so much more than just having authority and having the ability to take control of a situation. A leader has to be trusting of all the people he or she leads and, leaders must be able to combine ideas into one encompassing idea. They cannot sit in the background and watch events happen; they have to jump in and be involved. They should not delegate all their responsibilities away. Leadership is more than what the dictionary says it is. I learned through all of this that I have many of these qualities. I have the ability to solve problems, lead through adversity, and be versatile. From answering this question, I realized that I could lead effectively, even if my leadership style is different from other individuals. When I joined student council in my first year of high school, I did not have these qualities because I was never put into a situation where I had to lead. I was too reserved to try. When I tried, I learned that I could succeed in this. I did not realize until I answered this question about leadership. I was never able to see that being a leader is not just about taking control of a group and telling everyone what to do. When 134   I was a freshman, I thought leadership was this. I did not know that I did not have to be forceful and strict. I stereotyped a leader then. This is where I went wrong. A leader is about being yourself and never letting anyone change you. I thought I had to change to be a good leader. Only when I expanded my comfort zone did I realize this was not true. It only took three years and a silly question/game to figure this out.

pEopLE SAY ThAT INNEr BEAUTY mATTErS more than outer beauty. But when I looked into the mirror and saw my face covered with unsightly blemishes, it was hard to tell myself that and believe it. By the time I entered high school, my acne had gotten worse, and my self-esteem was at an all-time low. So in the summer of ninth grade, I embarked on an unexpectedly difficult and emotionally trying quest for clear skin, an experience that culminated in one of my proudest achievements. My typical daily diet consisted of sugary cereal for breakfast; salty turkey sandwiches, soda, and chips for lunch; a candy bar for snack; and rice and fried noodles for dinner. I never thought that my diet would be a cause of my acne, but the possibility first came to me when I was reading a skincare article. Desperate for a cure, I searched “clear skin diet” on the Internet. The websites that turned up all echoed the same message: a balanced and healthy diet is crucial for beautiful skin. The recommended foods listed included large portions of fruits, veg- 138   etables, grains, nuts, and fish; 8 glasses of water daily and only small amounts of high-sodium, high-fat, and high-sugar foods. I researched further and found out that the expensive chemical cleansers that I had been using were not the answer—gentle face washes and a coat of sunblock were inexpensive products that could reduce breakouts. I knew that changing my entire diet and skincare routine would require a tremendous amount of commitment and willpower. But determined to improve my skin and my self-confidence, I began to transform my lifestyle. I started by incorporating fruits and vegetables into my meals and replacing sugary cereal with whole grains, chips with carrots, and fried noodles with salmon. For a long, painful week, I stuck to this diet and restrained myself from any junk food. My skin condition changed gradually but substantially. By the end of the week, my skin was noticeably smoother, clearer, and brighter. Yet I found myself relapsing, unable to continue for long without indulging myself, unable to swallow the horribly plain salads and chewy carrots. Every time I stopped, the acne came back. It came to the point where I despised the acne and coveted the clear skin enough to force myself back on track. It became an excruciating pattern of cravings and self-restraint. I struggled with these two impulses until I became used to healthy eating, even enjoying it. now, two years later, my skin is better than ever and I have never gone back to eating the way I had before. I have no awards or medals to show for my particular achievement. But no academic distinction in the world can match what I gained from my experience with changing my diet: healthier skin, self-confidence, and newfound mental strength. Above all, I realized that by improving my outer appearance, I had enriched my inner appearance.

ThE hINdU God, BrAhmA, SEEING ThE plight of a society tainted by envy and greed, presents a boy with a drum that he can only hear, not see. This instrument, which is supposed to bring patience and discipline to humanity, is the foundation of Indian classical music. The boy has yet to discover that musicians use this tool to speak, allowing their minds to transmit messages through the vibrant pulsations of their notes. My guru told me this story when I began learning the tabla, a north Indian classical drum. Though he never revealed the ending, he offered one clue. “It doesn’t matter how fast your hands can beat the drum if your mind cannot keep up with them.” A typical American teenager, I had always yearned for raw strength and speed on the tabla. I thought those were the qualities that made the perfect percussionist. During concerts, I saw musicians’ fingers gliding across the head of the drum producing the extraordinary impression of force, immediacy of genius and intensity of passion that left audiences spellbound. I knew that to become the best at tabla, I needed to display my talent in a similar way. I wanted to play equally as fast and forcefully, even if it meant sacrificing precision for power. I asked my guru to train me to play like the maestros, but he said I lacked mental focus; I didn’t listen to or enjoy my music. He believed the mind and body must be in sync in order to master the instrument. I never fully understood this concept until the imagination of one visually handicapped child attuned my mind to the beat of the drum. As a summer volunteer at the Braille Institute in Anaheim, I developed the musical talents of blind elementary school children through teaching the tabla. My friends and I bought instruments and music with the money that we made during a summer recycling program in our neighborhood. During our first class, the children jumped into action, thumping erratically on their instruments. I chuckled at the sight of nine jubilant youngsters producing musical mayhem. Chaandni was different. Shy and reserved, she felt the drum’s smooth texture and stroked the soft middle portion of the drum head. I stood astonished as she performed her ritual. Tap. Listen. Smile. Tap.   15: Personal Growth 141 Listen. Smile. I could see her contemplating the emerging rhythm and resonance of each successive pulse. Watching a budding musician feel the delicate timbre of each drumbeat is a thrilling sensation. I learned more from observing than I did through years of erratic practice. Chaandni would eagerly listen to a musical piece, then strike incessantly until she produced a matching pitch. When she stumbled, she would sit patiently pinpointing her mistake. She didn’t speak; her insight and emotion glowed through her music. For the first time in my life I felt the depth of the drums. For the first time, I truly comprehended and loved the instrument. She was indeed a special soul. Her curiosity was insatiable; her regard for the drum was incomparable; her smile was inspiring. Her joyful progress inspired me to perform in London this summer with my guru. Driven by the spirit of a young girl who never let her disability impede her innate talent, I played gracefully in front of hundreds of spectators and cherished the inner triumph. I am a living example of Brahma’s story. The combination of grace and force on the tabla is my channel for communicating emotions. My tale ends with the appreciation that the mind is a beautiful vehicle for the drum. A

I USEd To SpENd ENdLESS NIGhTS wide-eyed, anxiously dreading a high school life teeming with harsh peers and hollow hallways, immersed in a cold atmosphere eternally void of familiarity’s warm embrace. I’ll admit that this is not a hopeful vision; nevertheless, I cer-   15: Personal Growth 143 tainly risked accepting this ugly reality when I supported my family’s decision to uproot itself and move from new Jersey to Florida after my freshman year. Somewhat flexible, my parents gave me a significant voice in the decision as I would be most profoundly affected. Yet, I had spent my entire life in the same cozy center-hall colonial in the same new Jersey suburb. I had known my friends since youth, when we had snowball fights during the icy winter and ran through lawn sprinklers during the summer. Teachers knew my family and cordially greeted me in the halls. I could never move. In my mind, I was set! Or was I? Instinct tugged at my heart, something was missing in my life because life is not about being “set.” Lured by the concept of a fresh start, I yearned for the chance to write my own story. As the son of Indian immigrants, I had adventure in my blood; the time had come to venture beyond my comfort zone and stake a unique claim in Florida. The first few months were trying; only birds joined me during lunch and I spend weekends alone writing introspective poetry. My fifteenth birthday centered on a family discussion about our affection for our new home while Hurricane Charley pounded the life out of Florida. I regretted moving. By fortuitous research, however, I learned more about innovative entrepreneurs who were shaping our world. I have not looked back since. My self-inflicted adversity finally evoked personal growth. I constantly introduced myself to strangers and pursued my passions in different activities. By launching and supporting community organizations, I transformed into a proactive leader as I overcame difficulties in varied contexts. Continuously seeking challenges in the community and IB Program, I teamed up with other motivated citizens and students to thrive and contribute to my new home. Today I am highly involved in my community with many friends and mentors. nobody knows me for my family or childhood, just for who I am today. The results of my own decisions and actions mean much more than what has been bestowed upon me. I would risk it all again because I know that I can only enjoy what I have earned. Breaking away from the risk-averse crowd that holds an exaggerated fear for what can be lost has been refreshing. I have gained trust in myself to defy odds because I never would have dreamt of the happiness and accomplishments that I have been honored to achieve in Florida. 144   College will certainly thrust a fiercer Hurricane Charley at me, but I will stare it straight in the eye and exceed expectations, eventually leaving an enduring legacy for the world through my entrepreneurial and philanthropic endeavors.

A ThIN ShArd oF SUNLIGhT SLIcEd through the vent of the windowless, cold, and cramped one bedroom basement apartment. The apartment stood three stories high with its weight suffocating the basement. I sat on the stained carpet, alone, playing with my one and only prized Hot Wheels car. My mother was working her ten-hour shift as a minimum wage waitress and my father was nowhere to be found. My father left our family when I turned three-years old. He also left the burden of his reckless gambling debt to my mother and left us to fend for ourselves. At the time, my mother barely spoke any English, yet she had to find work in order to support us. She became occupied with work, so I was frequently isolated at home. The house on Wellington Avenue in Daly City evolved to represent all the suppression my mother and I endured. As a child, wherever I could go to be away from the cell, I went. A few days after my eleventh birthday, I trudged home on an afternoon to discover our house robbed again, this time of my mother’s savings for the following month’s rent and my new “Stingray 5000” water gun. I burst into tears and cried in my mother’s fragile arms. It was that moment I vowed to do something about our situation. I was tired living in that horrid house, being deprived of my mother because of her demanding work schedule, and feeling like the whole world was constantly against us. Early in my childhood, I realized that our family was financially poor, because of that, I wanted to be rich in knowledge. Every day after school, I would take the transit to the Daly City Public Library where I could be away from the miserable house and focus on 146   my studies. It was there that I would max out my library card to read Harry Potter novels and sit at the wide tables with my head in textbooks and magazines, searching for a better life. My mother knew the anger I had for the house, as a result, she would indirectly encourage me to channel out my negative feelings for the house into positive ones for learning by dropping by the library after work with apple juice for me. My appreciation for my mother is great because she still managed to set time aside from her work to attend to my needs. My objective was to gain all the knowledge I could, in hope of devising a plan to get us out of the Wellington Black Hole. At one point, I spent a whole Saturday looking for some sort of mathematical equation that would cure our blight. Enriching my knowledge was my naïve way of trying to improve and control our bleak situation. Fortunately, my mother’s relentless effort for work allowed us to move to a better part of Daly City. When I finally got my driver’s license at the age of sixteen, after a vigorous curriculum of driver’s education, driving lessons, and a driving test, the first place I drove my mother’s old Toyota Camry was to the house on Wellington Avenue. The freedom of driving allowed me to explore a place where I had been trapped in for so long. Crouched on the warm cement, I glanced pass the faded wooden walls and peered through the constricting vent to see the three year old that once sat on the cold floor. As I stood with the sun shining on my back, I acknowledged that my mother and I were given a situation that we did not choose, but we ultimately became the ones who changed the course of our lives. A photo of the Wellington house sits on my bedroom window edge, casting a small shadow when sun light beams in. It serves as a painful reminder of my background, and an inspiration to continue excelling in life, even when unfavorable conditions dominate.

I SAT ThErE, STUNNEd For AN instant, and then jumped as high as I could and screamed as loud as my voice would allow. Blood rushed through my entire body, while the butterflies in my stomach finally flew away. I had just received my LAMDA Diploma with Honors, a task that has only been done by one person before me. LAMDA, the London Academy of Music and Dramatic Arts, comes to my high school, as well as others in the states, and gives what are essentially acting exams. In these exams, you must perform a series of monologues, and to receive the Diploma you must perform four five-minute monologues, one pre-1910, one post-1980, one Shakespearean, and one of your choice. I had worked for weeks on my monologues, perfecting them as much as I could, staying after school, working at lunch, even at home, despite the shouting by my sister for me to stop. When it came time to perform, I was incredibly nervous; however, after I came out of my performance, I lingered outside the theater, waiting upon my results, and when they came, I was astounded. not only was I able to pass my 150   exam, but also I came out of it with greater knowledge of theater than I had when I started. I learned a great deal from taking these various exams, most notably the age old lesson that hard work does pay off. The personal splendor I felt was one that I had never felt before, and I live to feel it again.

mUSIc hAS ShApEd mY pErSoNAL ANd intellectual life in many ways. Music is a common language that connects me to others who share my enthusiasm for creating it. Furthermore, I learn about my own preferences and personality through the pieces that intrigue me. As I expose myself to a wider array of styles and eras, my musical tastes   16: Talent 151 grow more complex. Through music, I welcome opportunities to expand my friendships as well as my instrumental horizons. I began studying piano at age six. For the next five years, my mother lived vicariously through my musical education, which her family had not been able to afford. In fifth grade, as I was becoming an earnest piano student, I was selected to commence violin lessons and play in my elementary school orchestra. From that day on, I saw life from a violinist’s point of view. Although I am a seasoned pianist, an ambitious solo violinist, and a fledgling cellist, I am, above all, a passionate chamber musician. My experience in a chamber quartet has had a strong impact on my character. When I was the second violinist, I simply enjoyed making music with my friends. Only after I became the first violinist did I feel the responsibility of leadership settling uncomfortably on my shoulders. However, the burden soon became a part of me and transformed into enthusiasm. now, as the quartet leader, I use the small group setting to channel each of our individual creative instincts. Each member of the quartet shares her musical interests, bringing favorite repertoire to the table, so that we each participate in the learning and playing experience. The quartet is also an outlet for my musical fancy. Ever since I discovered the Finale music writing software, I have delighted in arranging works for our quartet to play and perform. This year, my goal is to arrange and perform the Ferrante and Teicher version of the love theme from The Godfather for a piano duet and orchestra. As my aspirations grow, I aim to arrange music for a greater variety of instruments and to explore jazz, pop, and other styles of music on the piano. I desire to join others with similar talent and passion at Duke. However, before I leave my high school, I hope my appreciation for music will leave a mark on my community

I rAN AroUNd NErVoUSLY, YELLING AT my parents to wait downstairs; I did not want them to see anything that was going on. I rushed as fast as I could to make my bed, something most teenagers do not usually do. I made sure everything was in proper order as I called my parents up to my room. As I placed the last pillow on the bed, I acquired a sense of completion and achievement. I had done it; I designed and redecorated my bedroom. It was at this point when I, in my heart, became an interior designer. This picture represents more than just a bedroom to me; it is my first step on a path that I hope directs me to fulfillment. Designing my bedroom allowed me to explore the creative aspect of my life, and I was, and still am, able to appreciate the amount of creative talent I possess. It has become an intense passion in my life and I value this a great deal. This process illustrated the creative potential that I possess within myself, and I know that I can apply this promise in any aspect of my life. One of the greatest features of this project I took on is that I was able to see the results of my actions immediately. It was a hands-on experience that I enjoyed to its fullest, and I was exultant with the outcome. Overall, this project was a great success in my eyes, and even in the eyes of my family and friends who are amazed at my capabilities with design. However, as the designer, I do get frustrated with infinitesimal flaws. On the wall to the left of my bed there are two shelves and framed artwork that I created myself. In the process of the installation, I centered these shelves and artwork on the wall; however, the palm tree that I placed in the corner covers up one of the frames. I now know that it probably would have been better if I moved the shelves and artwork to the left of the wall. The importance of this is not the flaw itself, but in the fact that I learned from what I had done and know how to improve myself the next time. Overall, I feel the room came out beautifully and it symbolizes my first true triumph with design. Though this project meant a great deal to me emblematically, I also just had fun with it. Utilizing my imagination, and figuring out how I was going to make things work within the room was simply 154   enjoyable. not only was the design process pleasurable, but also the actual painting, nailing, and organizing itself was satisfying. I was also able to bond with my father through the project. He joined me in my most successful achievement of the room—the design and creation of the headboard. This venture and this picture epitomize my success. I consider my bedroom to be an elegant, contemporary work of art, and this picture embodies all the work I put into my design as well as the sense of achievement I received after its completion.

I STood BEhINd ThE cUrTAINS LISTENING to the applause to the previous act. I exhaled, realizing that this was a moment that fulfilled my childhood wish. Tonight was special because instead of an alto aria or a jazz lick, I had prepared a song unique to my identity. I curled my fingers around the microphone and waited impatiently as the curtains opened. My love for performance stemmed from my appreciation of music as a child. In the city in China where I spent the first ten years of my life, I never found a choir to join and never laid eyes on a grand piano. nonetheless, I treasured my passion for song and sought ways to bring music into my life. I sang with our old record player when I was barely tall enough to reach it. On certain afternoons, my best friend and I would tape bed sheets to the ceiling as curtains and invite neighbors to come listen. There, we sang in duet, danced, and bowed while clasping each other’s hands. Captured in our own musical sanctuary, we never noticed the hours that passed by. Music evokes in me the emotions that words and pictures cannot. I also revel in the intellectual challenges that music offers. I find it thrilling to tackle difficult, delicious repertoire, and I enjoy composing my own melodies. Through music, I can share and celebrate my past. When I was asked to share my cultural talents at my high school, I looked for a song that my mother sang when I was young, but I could not find the sheet music. A week before tonight, I sat down by the old piano in the practice room at school. With only the old tune ringing faintly in my mind, my hands soon took a life of their own and experimented with chords, arpeggios, and trills. I superimposed these on the original melody and composed variations. My voice, too, frolicked with the piano as I sang the tune repeatedly. I was lost in another musical paradise. I felt like a child again, tucked under the covers, listening to my mother’s song as I drifted away to dreams. now, dressed in an old Chinese dress that my mother had worn in her youth, I stepped onto the empty stage illuminated by pale blue light. I held the microphone up to my lips and smiled before starting. Then, I brought to life the beautiful ballad that had brightened my 156   childhood in China. My mind overflowed with warm memories of that faraway city as I lulled the audience with my melody. When I caught my mother’s face in the audience, I knew she nestled in the same air of nostalgia. Music allows me to present my native culture and contribute to the diversity in my community. It has stimulated my mind and provided an outlet for my creativity. To me, nothing is more pleasurable than being imaginative. Carrying my childhood love of music through my teenage years has been a gratifying experience, and I look forward to continuing in my undergraduate years.

YoU’VE GIVEN mE oNE morE pAGE to tell you about myself. Just one. There are only eight boxes for extra-curricular activities, only three lines to tell about my summers, just over two inches to write a note to my future roommate, and only one page to fill in all the holes, to color in all the blank space. Unfortunately both for me and for you, entire lives don’t fit into boxes and personalities can’t be completely sketched on paper. I have to do my best to show you who I am, and you have to do your best to find me in all this black ink. So, best of luck to you. As for me, I will write just one more page and hope it gives you a clearer image of who I really am. You have noticed, I’m sure, my list of extra-curricular activities. What you can’t see is the struggle that went into compiling that list. For one thing, my practice list was comprised of far more than eight activities, so I was forced to group things together and to leave things out. Every summer and winter, I travel with my youth group on a service trip, sometimes within this country, other times around the world. 158   The summer before my freshman year and again two years later, we spent two weeks in Costa rica, living with families there and working both helping build a renovation on a church there and playing with children in a refugee settlement called Pavas. The year in between, we ran a day camp for underprivileged children in San Antonio, Texas, and the summer before my junior year, we did various kinds of service in Columbus, Ohio. For our winter trips, we have done urban outreach in new York City and in Miami, trying to use those experiences to help our downtown church improve its outreach ministries. My service experience with church goes beyond these trips twice a year, though. I spend several evenings each year volunteering in the homeless shelter in my church’s gym both with youth group and with my family. We also go as a family each year early on Christmas morning to serve breakfast at the shelter and celebrate the holiday with the guests. These are pieces of the categories I call “Central Presbyterian Church youth group” and “Community Service” that I didn’t have space for in the box, but that mean a lot to me and play huge roles in my life. Another experience that I haven’t found a space for is the Maine Coast Semester, the four months I spent on Chewonki neck in Maine during the fall of my junior year. Although my essay provides one snapshot of the experience, it cannot possibly speak to everything the semester meant to me. Moving out of my family’s house and into a cabin with six girls my own age was extremely exciting for me, and what I found when I got there was even better than what I had expected. It was a place I could relate to. In science class, we would learn to identify the trees and wildlife that were living just outside our cabins. In the afternoon, working on the farm, we would lovingly tend the animals and plants that we would then harvest, prepare in the kitchen, and eat. Each of us realized our connection to every other member of the Chewonki community and to the land itself, and learned to be responsible with that connection. When I was assigned to collect recyclables before breakfast for my morning chore, I showed up just as promptly and with just as much energy as when my chore was to milk the cows or to clean the bathrooms. Similarly, when a teacher asked me to read an assignment for homework, I got it done, not simply because I wanted to keep a good grade, but because the entire class depended on each person’s individual preparation in order to have rich, meaningful discussion.   17: Travel 159 Coming home, I realized that here, too, I was connected to my community. Although it is larger than the one in Maine, I still have the same responsibility to those around me, and will have that responsibility to whatever community I am part of for the rest of my life. In my daily life, just like on my service trips, I try to look for chances to benefit something greater than myself. In college, I look forward to becoming part of a new community, and figuring out how to find my niche, so that I can serve that community as well as be served by it.

I oNcE BELoNGEd To roYALTY, STroLLING along the lush pastures of grass and enormous spires of renaissance structure. Unfortunately, I was not given a crown on my voyage, even though I felt the crown when visiting the grand castle in Spain. The picture shown is important to me not only because of the spectacular view, but it also represents my passions for the study of Spain’s cultural history and literature as well as how those subjects offer clues to discovering my individuality. Traveling to Spain gave me the chance of a lifetime to explore its history with respect to my personality. In the photograph, the castle in the background once belonged to the great royal unifiers of Spain named Ferdinand and Isabella. With their process of unification came the exploration of the Americas. Explorers such as Christopher Columbus established Spanish territories in the new World, such as Colombia, which is the country my parents are from, and I was born. From this chain of causality, Spain’s history essentially created my existence. Pondering about my historical background from Spain, perhaps I would have never been born if the king and queen never unified Spain. I could be speaking Arabic if the expulsion of the Moors never occurred under the hands of the Spanish monarchs. Curiously,   17: Travel 161 I could have been born as an Indian native, because the new World would have never been explored. Perhaps, I wouldn’t be looking at the same photo, explaining its significance! Frankly, exploring Spain’s history has enabled me to discover my origins. When viewing the picture through my point of view, I see myself returning the roots of my creation. Spain also offers a vibrant history of literary works and significant innovations in Hispanic literature. Similar to the exploration of history leading to a clue for learning about myself, I have the ability to explore the literature the Hispanic culture has to offer. Knowing two languages allows me to discover the essence of ideas authors such as gabriel garcía Márquez, Jorge Luis Borges, and Cervantes wanted to convey to their audience. Since language is to a code for ideas, I can decipher two different kinds of codes, English and Spanish, to understand the author’s emotions placed into his or her literature. Spanish literature also enhances Hispanic culture as a positive influence in the world. reading literature in Spanish and English consequently has allowed me to further search for clues about my cultural origins, since Spanish literature is considered a voice among the people. Perhaps my interest in these two subjects came from knowing I come from a Colombian family. I am the first in our family to be born in the United States, and as a result, I represent two different cultures. Knowing I come from a culturally different family, I feel passionate about exploring my family’s cultural roots because it is a method to discover clues about my individuality, as well as the origins of my family. In the USA, the last names of Aguado or granados are rarely found among common Americans. When I traveled to Spain, I purchased wooden plaques showing the coat of arms from my ancestors bearing the Aguado and granados names. When I found these plaques commemorating my family, I had felt I found yet another clue to my personality, since my last names were found from Spain (similar to finding a needle in a haystack). Finding my coat of arms on my trip proves my origins lie within the history and culture of Spain. The trip to Spain gave me the opportunity to explore my existence as a human being, as well as knowing from where I came. Based on my perceptions, my picture represents to me the complex evolution of my personality, since I am constantly finding new clues leading to the understanding of who I am. This picture is a part of my 162   constant search for my individuality and is a reminder of the beginning of my personal exploration. This is my crown.

ThE BUzzING oF ThE ALArm cLocK suddenly stops and, to my surprise, I am awakened not by the noise but by the silence, rudely jerked from my sleep. Six forty-five, the numbers read. I pull my comforter tighter under my chin and close my eyes, fully intending to get up in a few minutes. I’m sure I’ll wake back up in a few minutes, but not yet. I can’t do it yet. “Lolo!” someone’s whispering to me, in my dreams I’m sure. “Lolo, get up! Aren’t you coming?” Coming where? One instant of confusion. Only one blissful instant, and then it all makes sense. It’s Saturday. “Yeah, I’m coming.” The listlessness of my voice surprises me. I groan and fold the thick layers of blankets off of me. The frigid December air pounces. As I watch, thousands of tiny bumps germinate on my arms, and the fine hairs stand alarmingly straight. After getting out of bed and pulling on my bathing suit, I eagerly throw my winter coat around my arms and shoulders. I debate crawling back in my bed. no one said I had to do it. 164   I look at my cabinmates, and I push that thought from my mind. Although Lucy and Tuna stay nestled in their beds, Cara is pulling a sweatshirt over her head. Emily and Constanza are standing quietly, fully dressed, and Sarah is duct-taping a pair of flip-flops on her bare feet. Shoes. I had almost forgotten. I open the door, and look down at our tiny porch. My tennis shoes are indeed there, frozen solid. I force the unyielding layers of ice around my feet, wincing. The laces crunch, and small crystals of ice fall gently to the floor as I tie a bow on each shoe. Everyone is ready. It’s time to go. I wrap my arm through Constanza’s as we step off the last wooden step from the cabin. The air isn’t so bad out here--probably a few degrees above zero. My feet begin to tingle and then to burn. We trudge through the snow as quickly as possible, and I’m sure my excitement is visible on my face. Soon, we can see the water of the Sheepscot river, stained with thin sheets of ice. Most people would say we’re out of our minds. My friends back in Atlanta will call me crazy. I grin. Squeezing Constanza’s hand on one side and Emily’s on the other, I stumble through the mud left by the receding tide. “One, two, three!” We count together and sprint into the icy water, diving under the surface just for an instant. As we clamber out of the water and toward our chilled towels, our semester-mates cheer wildly. The next threesome heads toward the water. Later in the morning, the thirty-six students at Maine Coast Semester file into the dining hall for breakfast, about twenty of us dripping wet and beaming. Five of us sport shorts and sunglasses in a foolish attempt to defy the cold. I follow my friends to a table where a large book stands open, and sign my name under the heading “Polar Bears: December 7.” As I sit eating my bagel, I catch the eye of a wet-headed polar bear across the room and we smile together.

ThE qUIcK rIppING oF ThIcK TApE and the heavy thuds of cardboard boxes echo throughout an empty, unfamiliar, and lonely house. As the heavy boxes are slowly opened and their contents revealed, my young heart jumps for joy. There, within that scant and unexpectedly 166   durable shell of cardboard, lie my invaluable possessions. After removing the bubbly layer of protection from my valuables, I begin to place them, one by one, onto my familiar, yet strangely new shelf. I first lift out my ragged and faithful stuffed animal Mr. Teddy. Though torn, dirty and missing his left eye, he reminds me of my youth and the one constant friendship in my life. He has traveled with me thousands upon thousands of miles to and from each of the seven vastly different living experiences that have defined my life. Mr. Teddy has been there with me throughout the difficulty of every one of the transitions in my life. next, I pull out a small, fragile lamp decorated with blue and white pinstripes. A small yellow duck lives at the bottom of the glass compartment. As I fumble with the rotating switch, I see that only two of the three different settings are properly working. now, after years of travel, only the nightlight and brightest setting work. I leave the light on at its brightest setting and place it on my night table. The brightness comforts me. I return to the box to pull out my thick, denim blue journal and my favorite ink pen. I flip through the pages, pausing to glance at my informal collection of favorite pictures of friends, articles, and tidbits of memories that I have compiled through the stages in my life. I open to the last section of the book and glance at my favorite quotations alphabetically sorted by subject and author. I look up Woody Allen and smile at his ridiculously funny honesty and place my journal on the ledge next to my window. After refueling my ink pen I scoop up my carefully packaged rosary and Bible. As I crack open the case, the pearl white beads of my rosary glint in the sunlight and my ivory covered Bible, given to me on my First Communion, opens to the front page. There, written in my aunt’s handwriting, is a greeting written in Spanish and signed by my now deceased grandparents. These two items represent one of my only connections to my relatives and the history of my family in Colombia: a common religion and a belief in Providence. After saying a quick prayer of thanksgiving I pull out my final and most necessary possession. The dust flies off the glass as I blow across the surface. There, under the grime of travel, lies my own face fixed in time. Enclosed within a light maple frame, a color photograph captures my eleven year old self clothed in bright purple soccer shorts and a   18: Vignette 167 white sleeveless uniform shirt. My hair is tightly pulled back in the quintessential ponytail, sweat dripping off my skin and dirt covering my socks. My face is frozen in an expression of relief, domination, and triumph after scoring the game-winning goal in the merciless sun of a Houston summer. I study the image and wipe a single tear from my eye. My knee aches sympathetically, and I prepare to hang the picture. As I pick up the hammer, I realize that although soccer is no longer a part of my life, I have filled the vacancy in my heart with other challenging and significant activities that I have grown to love with the same fervor. That picture, though simple, encompasses the passion that is my life. It will forever symbolize for me the love and dedication I have for everything I do. With a last glance, I hang the heavy frame on the wall. The box is empty, unlike the room. Although the room is only filled by a few items, it is occupied by the only items I will ever need for the rest of my life: friendship, humility, self-expression, family, god, and passion.

BEcAUSE I FINd LIFE’S INTrIcAcY So amazing, biology and its related subjects are the most enjoyable topics for me. Within biology our brains interest me the most, which—with their countless neurons and chemicals—give us unmatched emotion, uniqueness, and potential. Due to the possibilities of understanding emotions and mental problems from their source, I’d like to develop a great understanding of neuroscience, and use it to help people overcome diseases and mental barriers as a doctor, allowing them to achieve the highest possible quality of life. Brown University would also give me the greatest ability to help people. With their deep community involvement and famous neuroscience department, I would have an outstanding opportunity to help people as I develop the utmost understanding of neurology. The open curriculum will also bring me more benefits. The ability to study multiple languages and social sciences will help me interact and exchange ideas with fewer limits. Moreover, the curriculum will allow me to be- 170   come an outstanding scientist. The way in which this could help me scientifically is best summarized in the words of my biology professor at Kent State University: “One of our major inhibiting factors in addressing more complicated issues of science is that scientists need to have a sweeping grasp of multiple disciplines such as psychology, biology, convention physics, and quantum physics. And if that wasn’t bad enough, you’re going to need amazing writing skills to convey your ideas to other people and seem credible.” I don’t necessarily expect to achieve full mastery in the four or five years I spend as an undergraduate, but I believe Brown is where I’ll have the best opportunity to advance in these areas. To expand even more, the open curriculum would allow me to surround myself with individuals that are just as passionate about languages and sciences as I am. With these classmates I would love to have great conversations and even participate in research. Attending Brown University will bring me all of these things, which will aid me in becoming the best doctor and scientist I can possibly be.

ThE FAmoUS GrEEK mAThEmATIcIAN ArchImEdES oNcE said, “give me a lever long enough and a fulcrum on which to place it, and I shall move the world.” The basic principle of a lever is that as the length of a lever increases, the effort needed to be exerted to accomplish a task decreases. This fundamental law can also apply to life. Life’s levers are experiences and opportunities that combine to motivate the individual to succeed. However, a lever is useless when forced upon an incorrectly placed fulcrum. Fulfilling oneself with passion and values is to build and place a strong and stable fulcrum. Without a passion for success, these opportunities and experiences become obsolete. Few find the correct balance between these variables and thus fail to reach their full potential. I, however, plan to be someone who finds that balance. 172   In an effort to build a successful lever for myself, I have searched for these experiences and opportunities all of my life. I have always had a passion for learning and a natural drive to succeed. At the beginning of my sophomore year in high school, I began to volunteer at a local, family owned zoo. This idea came from an innate passion for animals and an ongoing interest in science. At first, it was simply to complete a community service graduation requirement, but soon thereafter, I realized it was so much more. Work there was not like what most zoo volunteers experience. When other volunteers were following zookeepers and watching animals through cages at larger commercial zoos, I was spending nights “monkeysitting” my supervisor’s newborn Japanese snow macaque. However, calling it work solely alludes to labor. It was more of a life-altering, unique opportunity and provided me with the experience that clenched my decision to major in animal science. Along with my passion for animals, I am also always looking for ways to challenge myself intellectually. I am an active member of my school’s Envirothon and Math teams and a Science Olympiad competitor. After high school, it has always been a goal of mine to attend an academically competitive university. A few years of researching brought me to Cornell’s College of Agriculture and Life Sciences (CALS). After attending the CALS open house and information lecture on the animal science department, I knew it was the perfect fit. One of the reoccurring themes of my conversations with students and professors alike was CALS dedication to shaping students into leaders. With the experience I have gained in working at the zoo, I see myself emerging as a natural leader. Leaders are those few who do manage to balance the use of their “lever and fulcrum.” In high school, I also have worked my way to positions such as; nHS President, Steel Drums Ensemble President, and Student representative to the School Board. Leadership roles like these are not something I plan to make the past after high school. In a school like CALS that has so many extracurricular activities to get involved in, I am sure obtaining positions similar to the ones I hold now would not be difficult. One of the clubs that I have seriously explored is the Pre-vet Society. veterinary School is something that I plan to pursue after college and hope to get involved in at the undergraduate level. The building of a successful lever has only just begun for me. There is still so much that I have not seen or done. Life is full of opportunities   19: Why Our College 173 that can lead to great experiences, one of my greatest being volunteering at the Woodland Zoo. With all of the opportunities CALS has to offer, if given the chance to attend, I am certain that I would utilize every one; becoming not only an active member of the university, but a leader of tomorrow.

EVErYoNE KNowS ThAT IT TAKES BoTh hard work and a good understanding of the subject in order to complete a project. However, I never appreciated the other academic strengths and personal qualities needed until my 11th grade physics final. The task was to create an energy conversion machine that would undergo a minimum of five energy conversions. The construction of the machine piqued my interest in pursuing an engineering career and later became the pivotal factor in my decision to apply to Caltech. I knew from the beginning that it would be a challenge to complete just the minimum requirements for the project. Believing that my teammates and I had the ability and potential to do better, as the team leader, I made it our goal to cover the conversions of all eight energy types that were taught in class. I also strived to add into the machine a bonus feature of breaking an egg. Struggling to find a solution for breaking the egg, I reflected upon the force of gravity we had learned. This idea led to a trap-door mechanism that would allow the egg to fall under gravity and break upon impact. In addition to excelling in math and the sciences, I am also a strong visual art student. Enjoying drawing and designing, I gained a different perspective that I may not have had as just a science student. The creativity and imagination from the visual arts allowed me to use toilet   19: Why Our College 175 paper rolls, Styrofoam, and Popsicle sticks as the primary materials to construct the machine in a limited space within limited time. Together with good planning, coordination, and the ability to work in a team, my innovative perspective from visual arts made this project a success. On the due date, I watched with a prideful glee as the machine operated smoothly. For going beyond the minimum requirements, the machine was very well received. Beyond earning an excellent grade, the challenge of completing this project intrigued my increasing interest in engineering. My expectations and goals as a future college student were also evolved during the process. Certain that I wanted to become a professional in the engineering field, I began searching for a college that would provide me with an excellent academic and hands-on experience. While I knew that Caltech is a prestigious science and engineering school, it wasn’t until I received the Caltech Signature Award that I developed a stronger interest in becoming a Techer. Upon further research, I realized that Caltech is the college for me. At Caltech, my engineering aspirations will be realized in this challenging, research-integrated environment. The rigorous coursework and the generous research opportunities at Caltech will provide the challenge I need to achieve my goal of becoming an engineer. In return, I believe the combination of my academic strength and creative personal characteristics will definitely contribute to Caltech and help to add to the interdisciplinary atmosphere of the school. It takes more than just hard work to succeed as an engineering professional. However, it can be achieved with the outstanding educational opportunity at Caltech and with my other academic strengths and personal qualities.

My application and recommendation letters stated my scientific accomplishments. The passive thermoacoustic cooling device we presented at the Intel International Science and Engineering Fair (Intel 178   ISEF) won the Best of Team Category and First Award, among numerous other special prizes. We patented this device and are working with Taiwan’s Compal Corporation, your computer could very well be using parts built by them, to iron out a few more problems and to eventually share this revolutionary product with the world. now I would like to talk about more about just who Pen-Yuan Hsing is. My education started in the US when I was 7. Having come from Taiwan, faced with enormous cultural and language barriers, I had to learn to adapt. Overcoming loneliness and self-conflict, I made lifelong friends and English became in many ways my mother tongue. returning to Taiwan in fourth grade mirrored this difficult transition. Some may find me quiet and reserved, it’s because I learned to listen, and understand. Yet when the time comes, I do take the initiative and let my voice be heard, as my friends, teachers and parents can so often attest. Years later, I was unanimously elected as the head of Taipei Wetnet, a student-run organization that promotes environmental education and awareness. We hold seasonal conferences on environmental matters for students from all over northern Taiwan to participate. One story really struck a chord in me. For many years the Waimushan coastline was littered with thousands of plastic beads used in the fabrication of plastic products. Wildlife there mistook the beads as food and stuffed themselves to death. One can see many half-decomposed animals filled with plastic beads in their bodies. Our organization filed a report to local authorities requesting an investigation. The mayor learned of this and bought truckloads of sand to cover up the beach. This successful “cleanup” of the coast got him re-elected a second term in office. Two months later, the extra layer of sand was washed away by tides, re-exposing the plastic beads and animals started dying again. We weren’t willing to settle for that. People do not realize that whatever harm we do to the environment is ultimately done on ourselves. This is what Taipei Wetnet tries to convey in all of our activities. We started as just a few friends taking an excursion to the beach, but now Taipei Wetnet has impact on the national level. We had meetings on environmental policy and education with officials from the presidential level. I am grateful to have been the head of Taipei Wetnet during this extraordinary time. Of course, all my accomplishments, science projects and environmental activities, do have their share of difficulties and setbacks. It is through them that I learned the most.   20: Wait List Letter 179 For a student to do these things in Taiwan’s test-score-oriented culture is considered a highly risky venture. My science project didn’t win for several years in a row; I was warned to either stick to the traditional path of cramming and testing, or “face the consequences.” Under tremendous social pressure, I persisted, having faith that the skills I gained are more important. I like the apprehension of waiting for data to collect and the eventual thrill of seeing things finally turn out right, especially an experiment you labored on for countless nights. I like the satisfaction that what you are doing is making a difference in the world, such as the life changing experience of participating in Taipei Wetnet’s activities. Last year, my work was finally recognized in the world’s largest scientific gathering, the Intel ISEF. They even named a celestial object after me, the “minor planet” Hsingpenyuan, with others like Einstein and Cleopatra. While gratifying, this experience only made me more humble and dedicated. The average lifespan of a Taiwanese male is around 70 years. Almost through one-third of it, I do not want to waste the rest trying to be someone else. This is why my first choice is Duke. What first caught my eye was the Focus Program, with its interdisciplinary education and service learning opportunities. In fact, the first paper I co-authored and presented was about Taipei Wetnet’s experience in environmental service learning. A course in Duke’s special research Service-Learning program will definitely be one I plan to take. I am also very interested in Duke’s environmental science major. In many schools, it would be great if it even has a minor in environmental science or policy. In that case, they often lack actual hands-on training and accumulation of field experience. However, the nicholas School’s course and curriculum not only offers a solid education in basic science, it also provides ample opportunity for field study through unique facilities such as the Marine Lab and the Duke Forest. This is exactly what I think how we should learn about the environment, by actually doing something and seeing change. With Duke’s unique opportunities, I can continue to do research starting from my first year. (Also worth mentioning is the mild weather, definitely a plus for a Taiwanese student like me!) I look forward to becoming a Blue Devils fan, and perhaps even get a Kville experience. I also love reading science fiction and playing the piano. One great story I read was The Days Between by Allen Steele, it’s about a man who suddenly woke up alone on a spacecraft that is 180   still 200 years from its destination. Steele’s vivid description of how the character coped with loneliness and his determination to survive resonated within me. This also happens when I listen to Chopin. I try to rush home before 10 each night, the unofficial time limit for playing music in our apartment, to play the piano. Chopin’s music, torn with great strife and conflict, yet with a romantically optimistic touch, is something I could relate to, that I can share my feelings with. I would love to take a Piano Course if I may come to Duke. My unique qualities and experiences, so diverse yet intrinsically intertwined, allowed me to become the first Taiwanese student ever to receive the Ministry of Education’s full scholarship award to study abroad. With full backing of this scholarship, I strongly believe that armed with a strong Duke education, I will be able to make a difference in the world. Finally, I would like to express my deepest thanks for all the time and effort you have placed in the application process. My mother is a professor at the national Taiwan University who is agonizing right now over their undergraduate applications. This, along with my own background and experience helped me understand how difficult it must be to make an admission decision, as it has the potential to change the future of the world.

As a teenager, I was fascinated by personal computers which could screen movies, engage me for hours in visually-striking games and find me answers to all my questions. I picked computer science as my major for bachelor’s degree and was drawn to the practical applications that access to real-time data can provide. My curiosity led me to pursue my Masters in computer science at the University of Illinois, where I started my career as a Research Programmer. Noticing my communication, leadership and organizational skills, the IT director soon tasked me with leading a multi-campus team to implement a student portal. The transition from a non-profit to a startup software company gave me the opportunity to help architect the digital buying system which played a vital role in transforming the company to a market leader. My deep knowledge of the products earned me Product Manager’s role which is more aligned with the core business and provides more opportunities for growth. My experience as a technologist has been invaluable in performing my current role as a product manager, helping me provide commercially viable and technically scalable solutions. My short-term goal is to rise to a senior product role in the advertising technology industry, and in order to achieve that I need the marketing, operations and management skills that an MBA has to offer. Also, working together with future leaders at Booth will help me identify my unique style of leadership. The skills and the network I will acquire through an MBA, along with my industry experience, will help me achieve my long-term goal to be an entrepreneur in the digital marketing technology space.

In my opinion, a good leader should be able to communicate and collaborate, and in the process, inspire people to work towards the goal. Working closely with others, listening to the issues they are facing, and collaborating with them to work towards a solution creates a bond. Later, when faced with problems they will reach out to their leaders for solutions to deal with the situation. A few months ago, I was working as Product lead on a critical and time-sensitive project to upgrade one of our key external integrations. The project had a huge operational impact for our clients and had a tight deadline which required the team to put in several extra hours. I worked out a plan with the technical team and stayed back late nights with the technical team though I did not have a role to play. My action boosted the morale of the team who volunteered to work harder to meet the deadline. However, a few days before the deadline, we ran into a serious issue that jeopardized the project. The solution I proposed was deemed risky as it involved significant coordination and required an explicit approval from all of our clients. In 24 hours, I coordinated a mass effort with 10 different account teams to get the needed permissions from 100+ clients. Finally, the project was delivered on time and in the process has saved the company hundreds of thousands of dollars every year. When my group’s VP praised me for my effort, I told him that the real credit should go to the technical team who worked round the clock to make this project a success. Later that day, the technical lead informed me that my VP had appreciated the team’s effort. The technical lead thanked me for my gesture and mentioned that in the past projects the team was not given the due credit. Another quality of a great leader, I believe, is the ability to identify the right talent in his team, groom their skills and build efficient teams. Earlier this year, our company went through a merger. We welcomed five new team members to our team, and as the lead of the digital product, I was tasked with integrating the team. The members of the team had varying experience and technical backgrounds and were spread across three different time zones. I first identified the strengths of each of the new members and assessed how their qualities and abilities could complement the team. Through discussions, I found out their interests and skill set. I then created several two-people groups and assigned them to work on specific areas so each member would complement the other’s skill-set, pick up new skills in the process and lead to cross training. Every few weeks, the members changed teams and the areas they worked on. Within a few months, this process created a well-knit and skillfully diverse team, which was efficient in handling various tasks. The integrated team was able to handle 30% more workload and improve their average response time for support by 50%. Its huge success motivated two other teams to implement a similar approach. I think the largest pitfall that I have observed in a leader is being deceitful. Giving false promises and skewing the facts may work in the short term, but will eventually lead to losing peoples’ trust. A leader should be able to communicate factually and set realistic goals to inspire others. If 14 I had not been truthful in communicating to the technical team that they will have to work long days and nights and set real expectations on the end results, the project would have been a failure. Another major negative quality of a leader I have noticed is being selfish and putting one’s self interest before that of the team/organization. I keenly notice the contributions of every specific team member and make sure everyone gets their due recognition. If I had taken the credit for the success of the project, the word would have gotten out which might have affected my chances of expecting the same level of cooperation for the next project. I strongly believe that having leadership in thought and vision is not enough to make one a leader. The small personal gestures enhance the perception of a true leader and can motivate others to work towards the ultimate goal. I am excited to further enhance my leadership qualities through the courses and workshops offered through the Lead Exploration and Development program offered by Booth.

“Don’t try to re-invent the wheel.” said my colleague, Deepak after I showed our team, consisting of 6 IT professionals and myself, my solution for a framework for Johnson Controls (JCI) enterprise applications. The solution was a re-engineered process to build a framework for the foundation services for the JCI enterprise applications that is the heart of our client Johnson Control’s $30 Billion multi-industry business. I had developed a similar solution to several other major clients before, so I was confident that my solution was efficient and versatile enough to handle the upcoming product upgrades. I, therefore, expected no resistance from the team. Deepak was wary about the changes to the framework as it is utilized by many client applications, whereas I knew that the existing framework will not support the future product upgrades and is bound to fail. The next day, I approached my client manager and told him how confident I was about my solution and explained to him the benefits of adopting it. But he told that he and the team were not confident about my solution. He also told me that since I was dealing with a system that was an important part of JCI IT infrastructure, it required more than just a presentation to convince the team. Disappointed, but confident, I decided to prove my results by gathering the supporting data and demonstrating the team with sample prototypes. Over the next one month, I worked on building application prototypes, developed a presentation to demonstrate the benefits of using my framework, and collected few cast-studies to support my theory. A month after the last meeting, I approached my client manager and proposed him my plan. I also showed him few case-studies and explained him how the new solution could help the client cut down 20% of maintenance cost that is spent on supporting the applications. Then I addressed some of his concerns related to security and code migration. Impressed with my analysis, the client manager agreed for the presentation. A couple of days later, I presented the solution to the team with a complete analysis on the benefits of the solution. I also demonstrated the prototype that I developed using my solution. After multiple rounds of presentations and discussions, the team was convinced that my solution offered greater benefits, so they agreed to adopt it. We later presented this solution to the IT directors from other JCI divisions and showed them the benefits the solution offered to their enterprise IT applications. Six months later, this framework was established as a standard for enterprise IT applications across all JCI divisions. Personally, overcoming this challenge is significant to me in terms of my confidence. Challenging the client team at a client location and winning my proposal made me more confident in speaking my mind about the project issues at work. Since then, I have never hesitated in expressing my opinion, and it has helped me provide many valuable contributions to the projects.

In 2004, during my junior year, when I was at my parents’ house for the mid-year vacation, I received the terrible news during a medical check-up: I was diagnosed with cancer. I felt devastated- my world had fallen apart. I was frightened with the possibility of never being able to have children. During two weeks of vacation left, I underwent a delicate surgery and faced the dilemma “Should I request a leave of absence or not?” Requesting the leave of absence would be like admitting that cancer could beat me. Although I understood the seriousness of my medical condition and the need for continued treatment, I was not willing to pause my life as I had worked hard towards my academic goal for three years. I asked the doctors if I could continue my studies for the semester and start radiotherapy treatment during the year-end vacation. They told me that there were some risks attached, but that could be mitigated with monthly follow-ups until I started radiotherapy. I decided to continue with my studies. It was an extremely demanding academic semester, where I had to conciliate my studies, the research assistant internship and the constant fear of bad medical news. The GPA for that semester was the lowest, yet the most ‘celebrated’. After exams, I returned to my parents’ house and underwent a month of radiotherapy. Finally, after five years of semiannual medical follow-ups, I was declared clinically cured. This setback taught me to go against the stream and take calculated risks. In my last project, I suggested going beyond the initial scope. I knew if my plan failed, I would be blamed, but I still decided to take the risk and succeeded in getting the project got back on track. I strongly believe that one of the most important business skills is to believe in your intuition and take the leap; the higher you climb the corporate ladder, the faster you have to make important business decisions. Learning to trust my intuition and taking calculated risks has made me a better prepared professional for present and future success.

Having grown up in a joint business family of 30 members – Grandparents, parents, 10 uncle and aunts, and 15 siblings, qualities of working for agreement among conflicting views, organization, belongingness, teamwork and sharing are engrained in me. I still recall the time when, as an 8th grader, I had to convince my grandfather, eldest uncle and my father separately and altogether to allow me to go on a 15 days’ educational school trip to New Delhi and Shimla. Since my growing up years, my eldest cousin brother has been a role model for me – he was a top ranker at high school and in Chartered Accountancy Exams. Also, he has always been thoughtful of the needs of all individuals in a joint family. Today, he is thriving in his business that he set up solely on his own. Another person who influenced me significantly is my mother. She used to save almost every penny of her pin money for my future advanced studies. Thus, she taught me great lessons of saving for the future while living a simple life. At the tender age of six, I learned a lesson that shaped my success in later life. I flunked in kindergarten grade and had to repeat KG for another year at a convent school in my hometown Bhagalpur. I was frustrated to see all of my classmates advancing to the next grade, and myself amidst a new group of students. I still remember the first few days in my second year at Kindergarten when I used to peep into next grade class to get a glimpse of my old friends. This event engrained values of hard work in me; since then, I was in the top ten percentile of students in my class and later excelled in in my professional career. While working in more than ten cities across India and USA in the last fifteen years, I have interacted with co-workers and customers across continents - in Canada, Mexico, Italy, UK, France, Germany, Singapore, Japan, and Australia. These experiences have taught me to work with people from different cultural groups effectively, appreciate their culture and build trusted friendships while working towards common goals. My cultural adaptability has enabled me to resolve conflicting situations more effectively. One of my passions is traveling various places. In the last 20 years, I have travelled to over 100+ cities, towns and villages in USA, India, Singapore and China – from pilgrim spots to beach towns to mountainous terrains to fast-paced cities. I enjoyed varied cultures and experienced different way of life in these places. I am now looking forward to alternate travel experiences during my executive MBA at Wharton. I am a true family person. I love to spend quality time with my wife and two sons aged 9 and 4. I enjoy playing with my sons in the park, helping them with their home-work, and sharing with them stories of my growing up years. I try to inculcate in them distilled ethics and values that are key to my culture. My wife has been always there for me in time of joy and sorrow. I love to share with her my daily life experiences. The sudden death of my father in late 2004 had suddenly matured me. On Nov 10, I, along with my wife and older son, had reached my hometown and the whole family was jubilant to be jointly celebrating the festival of Diwali for 18 the first time after my marriage. However, destiny had other plans for us. That evening my dad had severe cardiovascular attack; we rushed him to local hospital and then to heart center at Kolkata, where he breathed his last on Nov 13. Those four days of my life were extremely challenging as we desperately tried to save him. This experience of those last moments with my dad had taught me to live each day to the fullest and be of service to others My continuous urge to serve others has led me to various opportunities at work and community. In December 2011, while talking to some of my colleagues I came to know that most of them were spending huge amounts with most expensive health plan option – ‘Premium Health Plan’. It was their general perception that costliest health plan option would provide best health risk coverage To break this perception, I quickly compiled related information and conducted 5 sessions covering 150+ colleagues in the bay area – presenting health insurance expense scenarios and related risk coverage. A year later, I was amazed to see that many of these colleagues reported significant savings with better health coverage provided by economic Plan – a consolidated savings of $250+ K for my them. My passion to serve others motivated me to join a charitable institution called Tej Gyan Global Foundation, headquartered in Pune, India. Many of my beliefs were shattered when I came across Tej Gyan Global Foundation –My strongest belief “Nothing is free in life” was crushed and transformed into much stronger belief that “Best things in life are all free”. After my association with this organization, I realized that helping others is the best way to help yourself. I attend weekly session to deepen my understanding of core purpose of life, happiness, and world peace. Also, I have organized and conducted 15+ seminars in the last four years to spread the message of happiness. Currently, I am preparing and refining training content focused on development of school children to build confidence and self-esteem, and I plan to conduct these trainings in local elementary and middle schools in 2013. As I have grown in my life, I have cultivated humility and openness as key values. I believe my personal values of determination, cultural understanding, and serving others, combined with my professional attributes of leadership, global experience, and team working skills will reinforce the values of Wharton community. At Wharton, I am not just looking for an executive MBA, but a lifetime bonding with fellow students, professors and alumni.

My life’s journey has taken me from kinder garden in France, elementary and middle school in communist Angola, high school in post-apartheid South Africa and university in a pre and post 9/11 United States. Over my nine years of professional experience, I have taught at the university and have helped to establish a financial institution in Angola and its sister institution in Portugal. I am now attempting to transform a 25 year-old core-banking software vendor with clients in seven countries. What can I bring to IESE’s Global EMBA program and how will I contribute to the experience of my fellow students? Well, when pondering on this question , I thought about my education, my work experience, my values, but it was not until I thought about my late father that I found my real answer. My father had kept a positive attitude towards life even though he was going through eight months of treatment for pancreatic cancer more than 12,000 kilometers away from home. He built a $130 million business from scratch, yet what I always admired him the most for was his ability to make a positive impact on people’s lives. I believe I will not only bring to the IESE the internationally diverse experience I have had, the academic awards I have won, or the potentially interesting projects I have participated in, but also the lifelong influence of a man who understood his place in the world and throughout his life, strived to make a difference in the lives of those around him .The one true contribution that I believe I can make to my fellow students is the commitment to fully dedicate myself to an educational experience and continue my personal attempt to make the world a better place.

While working with CVS Caremark, I completed healthcare certificates and understood the security constraints on sharing the private information of patients. In Apr 2012, Caremark acquired new business for one of the MCOs (Managed Care Organizations) participating in the Medicaid program of Texas, and the State mandated to do the certification testing on the actual patients’ data before receiving Medicaid claims from real time environment of Caremark. Due to time constraints, MCO had very strong opinion of producing claim file from the test server to meet the state timelines. I was leading my team to build the business functionality and was responsible for delivering this Medicaid file from Caremark. The discussion between Caremark and MCO about generating file from test server shocked me as any employee could download the patients’ confidential information from test server and share this with third parties which is technically a PHI (Protected Health Information) violation of federal government. I was in two minds, “Should I go ahead with the normal process without making a big deal of PHI? Or “Should I do what is ethically right?” Under the pressure of delivering file on time, I aligned my team and generated the first two test files from the test server but did not feel right about it. I then weighed the integrity of the organization against the client’s demand and eventually stopped certification testing in the middle of the project. Due to this decision, I got many escalations from the client and was on the verge of losing my contract with Caremark. In the meantime, I did brainstorming with Caremark technical experts for 2-3 days and came up with another approach for generating the test file without violating PHI. My team worked closely with these experts to setup a different real time like environment so that only specific contracted people were provided access to this environment and allowed to generate those files. Once it was finalized, I persuaded Caremark management to follow this process going forward. This process eventually laid the foundation for using this new environment to do such testing with the state. This experience reinforced my belief to listen to my inner voice and do what is ethically right. I am proud of myself for my courage to displease my client by not meeting the deadline and did what was ethically right. Also, I have become more confident now to handle similar situations, so in similar situations in future, I will take the decision fast enough to meet the demand of the client.

Born into a family of professors and engineers, I was expected to be academically proficient. With above average scores in high school and college entrance exams, I faced high expectations to get into a good college for undergraduate studies. In my state, the undergraduate admission process is centralized through the single window system in which all Class XII students are ranked based on composite index of the state entrance exam and university final exam scores. Based on this ranking, the students were given the opportunity to pick the school and major of their choice. In class XII, I was ranked in the 90 percentile and had a decent shot at getting into the engineering program in a good school with scholarship. I had been tracking the availability of seats at all the engineering colleges and was thrilled to know that some seats were available at the best school in my city. I knew which school I wanted to pick, so I imagined the whole process to be quick. Unfortunately, I was in for a rude shock when the counselor told me that the last seat for engineering with a scholarship had just been taken in my dream school. I almost felt robbed and drew a blank as to what my Plan B should be. Now I was faced with two options- either pick a seat in the school of my choice without a scholarship or settle for a new college with an unknown reputation but with a scholarship. I had never imagined myself to be in this situation as I was very particular about going to school with a scholarship. I thought the effort I put in to get good scores would be meaningless if I did not get a scholarship. Much to the disbelief of my parents, I finally made my decision and picked the new college with a full scholarship and Computer Science major. As I signed the papers and walked out, I felt that I had just committed the worst mistake of my life. I had picked a school about which I knew nothing about only for the sake of scholarship. Contrary to my expectations, my undergraduate days at the college I had unexpectedly picked were some of the best of my life. Through the years, I was the secretary of the Computer Science Association, the president of the school's ACM Students   and the coordinator for the Placement Services Council. The various roles and opportunities that the school provided me with in terms of organizational, leadership and communication skills have molded me into a well- rounded individual. It was the perfect foundation for me to start my career in the lucrative information technology industry. I benefited from the practical and interactive teachings on and off the classroom, and in the process had made great friends for life. I consider my decision about choosing my undergraduate school the best mistake of my life because it has played vital role in shaping my career.

I was hired by XXX (name of the company) to coordinate the local risk management process. This was my first work experience in a multinational firm, and the most demanding part of my job was to manage the cultural differences. In April 2012, when my reporting contact in Germany, Mr. Anthony, came to visit our local operation, I had the opportunity to deepen my contact with the German culture. While we were working on action plans, I started writing minutes of the meeting to be sent by email after the meeting. Mr. Anthony, however, seemed to take offence and asked: “Why are you writing all this? Isn’t my word enough?” This started a discussion about the work ethics differences in Brazil and Germany. He told me that Germans have a strong sense of responsibility, and whenever they commit to something, they keep their word. In the meetings, they just jot down their notes about ‘things to do’, so they do not require formal ‘minutes’ of meeting. His reaction shocked me because emailing minutes of meeting with supervisors copied has been natural to me. We Brazilians usually avoid direct conflict, and sometimes, even if we don’t agree with something, we say “I’ll do that”, meaning we will actually never do that. Unless there is a written commitment and a supervisor on the loop, verbal agreements do not mean much. This incident is memorable to me because it has taught me to value my word more and think twice before committing to something.

There is a symbiotic relationship between my work and my personal traits – just as much as my strengths have helped me excel at work, my work experiences have been conducive to my self – discovery. Handling a family business is a challenging work. My family’s business is heavily dependent on coal and after decades of successful operations, it is gradually getting tough to carry on coal mining and its ancillary business due to plummeting natural resources, market trends and new environmental regulations. Seeing my father always worrying about business sustainability, I always wanted to do something to help him. Two years back, I came up with the idea of diversifying our business into hospitality industry, and recently, I partnered with my father to setup a guest house in which I have 25% stake. I am confident that the business will flourish in our hometown - the next destination of business in the state. My father thinks highly of my vision and always appreciates this decision. My vision to become a global leader has infused in me the passion to take up challenging work in cross-cultural environments. Despite grieving from the untimely demise of my mother, I decided to join TCS at Chennai in a promising but laborious project. Even though I had the option to join TCS in my hometown, I went to Chennai because I wanted to get familiar with new work culture. Soon I got opportunity to work in the USA to handle complex projects. My passion to accept challenges in diverse cultures has been instrumental in my career and has helped me define my goals. Furthermore, I am great at developing a trustworthy and efficient working culture with the customers and influence them with efficient communication .To tap my talents, my TCS Business Relationship Manager entrusted me with the responsibility to setup a new process at Client sites. I proved myself by bringing business of $1M for TCS and helped in client retention and client extension. I am the favorite choice of the business owner who chooses me to represent the company in meetings, make negotiations and deal with the clients. I successfully handled a deal with a client which resulted in 15% profit in the business. There are some traits that I would like to leverage more in the future. I have an intrinsic skill for networking and have connections starting from film industry to corporates and local government body. I have been given the responsibility to organize events at TCS and at Project Management Institute West Bengal  . However, I feel that these skills have not been satisfactorily put to a test. I would like to leverage my networking skills and organizing capabilities to make corporate connections, connect with industry leaders and NGOs in the interest of UNC Kenan Flagler and bring in prominent personalities for guest lectures. Kenan Flagler will give me opportunity to enrich these skills, build a bigger network and a launch pad to succeed in my business and NGO venture in future.

As an actress and stagehand for the New York Civic Theatre, I am committed to a career in the entertainment business. Over the past twelve years, I have worked on every aspect of set design and production, mastering the endless technical challenges that live theatre presents. Consequently, I am equally comfortable constructing sets, sewing costumes, stringing lights and running lines with famous actors. Even after all these years, I have not lost my passion for the business. I still get goose bumps on opening night when I watch the combined energy of the production company come together for the first time in front of a live audience. I can't imagine feeling tired after an 18-hour day, as my job is enormous fun. As much as I enjoy my work in production, I am equally interested in the other aspects of the business: how shows are financed, how authors are compensated, and how the theatre makes money. Clearly, many people contribute to the financial success of the acting and production troupe at 5th and Broadway. By learning more about the business behind my art, I will be better prepared to assume a managerial or administrative role. I also acknowledge my need to become more knowledgeable about viable entertainment alternatives to Broadway shows. Other than tourists, who devour live entertainment, those outside New York City tend to perceive the theatre as old-fashioned and irrelevant. Since few successful shows do well on the national touring circuit, my beloved art form may well be in its declining stage. Consequently, I've concluded that for many dedicated theatrical professionals, the future will be elsewhere. I am eager to acquire the business expertise to navigate the anticipated changes in the entertainment industry. In a few years, our industry will be forced to adapt to the tastes of the MTV generation, who favor alternative forms of entertainment such as movies, television, live internet feed and pay-per-view offerings. I want to be prepared for this transformation. To whatever extent possible, I hope to take a proactive role in converting our most successful products to video, DVD, and the emerging satellite television business. I'm not certain what role conventional theatre will have in twenty-first century entertainment, but I want to be positioned as a leader in the field, who has the skills and flexibility to thrive in a rapidly changing environment.

Blessed with a strong entrepreneurial spirit, I see potential business opportunities in situations that most people do not. After business school, I will use my training and enthusiasm to develop the tourism industry in Singapore, which provides the lion's share of the country's national income. Despite its solid reputation with European tourists, Singapore fails to attract young American visitors to the area. Sadly, many Americans do not realize the benefits of the region, including beautiful beaches, a temperate climate, a rich sense of history and close proximity to a thriving business district. While in business school, I will continue to investigate a novel idea to market the Singapore region to American college students. My dream is to start a student-run business that leverages my familiarity with the Singapore economy with my desire to help American students start their own businesses and joint ventures in Singapore. My firm will co-ordinate two-week visits from American students to Singapore, which will be filled with cultural, business and recreational activities. My goal is to provide each client with a realistic experience of life in Singapore, including an orientation to the business climate and living conditions. In rigorous brainstorming sessions, students can learn unique ways to market their products and services in the burgeoning Asian market. My preliminary research suggests that this type of service would be highly beneficial to both the students and the Singapore economy. By holding the sessions during off-season, the local hotels and restaurants will make money during a traditionally slow season. By promoting potential joint ventures between participants, I will also create the potential for future earnings that would not otherwise exist. At an early age, young men and women (all future business leaders) will identify Singapore as a vibrant, exciting place to do business. My firm will play an integral role in promoting the city to a new, highly-educated group of people. To date, I have received overwhelmingly positive response to my idea. As I pursue my passion for business, I am eager to learn from the experience and perspective of others. My two years at Wharton will be a wonderful time to identify, refine and pursue a number of ventures that will be personally and professionally rewarding. My pursuit of each idea will require painstaking research, as I determine the most efficient way to market and deliver my services. As a true entrepreneur, I embrace this research as an essential component of my success. In any venture, it is the critical link between a terrific idea and a successful execution.

As a college student in the early 1980's, I discovered my passion for technology. Wayne State University had one of the first PCs in existence and I was determined to learn everything possible about how it worked. Fueled by a powerful sense of self-reliance, I completed my degree in Business Administration/Computer Science, which sparked a successful career selling financial software to government agencies and large corporations. At the time, my role was largely educational, as the software industry was in its infancy. For seven years, I earned an excellent living (and exceeded several sales records) by helping people take advantage of the powerful benefits of technology. Despite my financial success, I yearned for more personal fulfillment from my career. Throughout college, I worked in several hospital positions, including front desk operations, patient transport, transcription, billing and systems operations. In every location, I noted a chronic need for a fast, reliable radiological transcription service. In 1996, I formed Lightning Fast Scrips, which provides medical transcription services to 38 radiologists throughout the Atlanta area. Combining my talent for sales and my knowledge of health care administration, my business has enjoyed explosive growth. In less than ten years, Lightning Fast Scrips grew from a tiny one person firm to employ 18 employees and generate $23 million in annual sales. As the owner of the company, I manage the accounting, marketing, advertising, customer service and human resource functions. Many days, I transcribe radiology reports alongside my employees. After 8 years, my business has earned a reputation for providing fast, honest and reliable service in the health care community. Yet recent trends in the industry suggest that our growth may be limited by my lack of formal business training. My largest competitors are large health care conglomerates with state-of-the-art expertise in marketing and advertising. By competing on price, they have become formidable opponents to my hometown, personalized approach. I want Lightning Fast Scripts to be able to compete in this market, not just in 2006, but in 2116 and beyond. An MBA from Chicago will provide the nuts-and-bolts expertise in all aspects of growing a business, from increasing my sales to projecting my income for a new revenue stream. With formal training in strategic planning, I can realistically evaluate alternative aspects for growth, such as franchising my concept or offering my services to other medical specialists. Chicago has an enviable reputation of attracting older, more seasoned students than other highly competitive MBA programs. I am eager to tap into their collective expertise to formulate my future plans. Ultimately, my long-term goal is to develop my business in as healthy a manner as possible. As an employer, I hold the future of many families in the palm of my hand. I also have a vested interest in creating new jobs and doing my part to expand the economy. With an MBA from Chicago, I will learn more efficient ways to deliver my services in an increasingly competitive market. In turn, I have numerous strengths to offer your program. My entrepreneurial success, intellectual curiosity and health care experience will contribute to the diversity of the class and ultimately to my success as a student. After a lifetime of preparation, I am ready to embrace everything that a Chicago MBA has to offer.

My work as an organizational and management consultant with Mobil Oil has given me an ideal portfolio of professional and personal skills to bring to business school. During my time with the firm, I have used a wide range of tools, concepts and theories to help teams analyze problems, develop solutions and build action plans. On a regular basis, I help teams clarify their values to determine the roles and responsibilities of each member. By sharing my practical experience in organizational and management consulting, including my focus on the impact of a company's leadership, culture and politics on its success, I will provide an original perspective during class discussions. With my multicultural background, I will also bring a wealth of team building experience in which members have different nationalities, styles, expectations and reward systems. After years of international business travel, I am comfortable in any work or social environment. As a result, I am able to recognize and use individual differences and cultural norms to motivate team members. By building ethical relationships based on honesty, trust, respect and cooperation, I have built several high performance teams at Mobil Oil, and I plan to do the same at Harvard Business School. Throughout my diverse experiences, I discovered that my consulting and technical tools are only successful in an environment of honesty and trust. For managers and employees to achieve a common objective, they must be willing to build ethical relationships in which all parties share their concerns, dreams and honest opinions. Without exception, all of the intangible strengths of a great team, including creativity and cooperation, depend on open communication. As a result, I am passionate about creating an environment that nurtures these strengths. I pride myself on developing teams that are strong enough to handle the pressures of large egos, conflicting agendas, external resistance and negative feedback. I am excited about the possibility of using my skills to advance the entrepreneurial plans of my fellow students. Once team members are committed to achieving a common goal, and are confident that they have the unconditional support of their peers, the possibilities for collaborative innovation are limitless.

As a liberal, open-minded woman, I was appalled by the school's inflexible positions on topics of moral and social relevance. In my mind, my job was to encourage discussion and nurture independent thinking, not to simply parrot the school's "party line." Fortunately, I quickly received another job offer teaching history at a public school outside Nashville. My employers not only tolerated, but supported, my commitment to lively classroom discussions. In fact, I was named "Teacher of the Year" in the Nashville school district for five consecutive years. In hindsight, I regret accepting the first position at the Catholic girls school, which was a profound professional disappointment. Yet the experience forced me  re-evaluate my commitment to teaching, which requires presenting views that are not necessarily my own. I also confirmed my passion for free speech, which is an essential component of any meaningful exchange. I want my students to think, grow and confidently express their feelings, even if they differ from my own. Without that terrible year of restrictions, I might not have brought the same level of passion to my classroom in Nashville. If You Could Change One Decision in Your Career, What Would It Be? Shortly after I graduated from college, when I was laid off from my job at Bank of America, I accepted a position in the margins department at T. Rowe Price. An ambitious self-starter, I was frustrated by the menial nature of the job. My duties were significantly less challenging than my role at Bank of America, which offered managerial possibilities. When I didn't see an immediate opportunity to prove myself, I began to question whether a financial career was right for me. Rather than consider an alternative position in finance, I decided to pursue my childhood dream of running my own business. After less than a year, I resigned from T. Rowe Price and started www.FlashWeb.com, a web design firm. As an early "internet junkie," I was definitely ahead of the curve, both creatively and financially. Few other small companies were designing web sites in 1996, and my firm enjoyed a huge competitive advantage. Yet within a matter of months, I realized that I had made a terrible mistake. I missed the fastpaced environment of finance and became restless in a sedentary job in front of a computer screen. Many days, while completing a project with Flash animation, I found myself listening to the market reports on CNBC. After careful introspection, I admitted to my myself that my true calling was to work in finance, regardless of the time required to prove myself. Unfortunately, I re-entered the job market during one of the worst economic climates in recent memory. After an extensive search, I accepted a position as a human resources coordinator at the Royal Bank of Scotland. Although the job is only tangentially related to finance, the experience has been invaluable. In addition to developing my skills in human resources, I learned about the challenges of working at an international bank. By making several key placements in the financial planning group, I discovered that it is an excellent fit for my strengths in mathematics, logic and finance. I plan to pursue a long-term career in financial planning following the completion of my MBA. Looking back, I can see that my decision to resign from T. Rowe Price was inspired by immaturity and poor judgment. I was naive to think that I could build a satisfying financial career without proving myself first. Despite the false start with my web design firm, I do not regret the experience. By exploring an alternative path, I forced myself to re-evaluate my goals and adjust my plans for achieving them. When I returned to the financial world, I brought a more mature outlook and an increased appreciation for my job. Ultimately, I realized that nothing is "menial" in the development of a lifelong career. Every task, large or small, has taught me something valuable about the industry and my eventual place in it.
John Ling is an exceptionally motivated young man with a BS in Engineering from the University of Beijing. After working as a Chemical Engineer for Exxon in China, John left his native country and relocated to the United States. Without family or friends, he faced the daunting challenge of supporting himself, mastering English and preparing for his eventual enrollment in an MBA program. Fortunately, John's adaptive skills helped the transformation go smoothly. He embraced the opportunity to learn more about western society by simultaneously enrolling in school and starting a new job. He accepted a position as a manager of a local upscale restaurant and quickly advanced to a district manager's position. The CEO was impressed by John's interpersonal skills and his ability to assume more responsibility. Within a few months, John rescheduled the workload within his district, improved the customer service and implemented a quality control program. After just two years with his firm, he is considered senior management material. While advancing in his restaurant career, John also achieved academic success at Lake Placid Community College. Classes in business, economics, and law provided a deep understanding about the rules and business practices in the western hemisphere. John's dual work and college responsibilities greatly challenged his time-management skills. Many nights he had only a few hours of sleep, yet by becoming increasingly efficient, he juggled his multiple roles. John's resilience, stamina and lust for knowledge helped him to overcome seemingly insurmountable obstacles on his path to success. Despite his hectic schedule, John always finds time for social and community activities. He took a leadership role in organizing the first International Student Club on campus. He negotiated the structure and financing of the club with the administration, wrote articles and organized the first meetings. For his efforts, John was proud to be chosen the club’s first President. John also works tirelessly for the Brethren, a volunteer group that helps Asian immigrants assimilate into American society. Since 2000, he has organized four fundraisers for the group and secured housing for 23 Chinese exchange students in the Lake Placid community. New York City Mayor Rudolph Giuiani wrote a glowing reference letter for John, praising his tireless efforts in the Asian-American community. John shows an uncanny ability to apply his skills in diverse environments. He demonstrated incredible motivation by his willingness to start at the bottom, leaving a secure life in China to pursue a western business degree. John's references all cite his friendliness, cooperative work ethic and willingness to help others. His versatility is excellent preparation for the intensity of Sloan’s MBA program. After just three years in the United States, John achieved a composite GMAT score of 760, which is nearly impossible for someone who is not a native speaker of English. Clearly, John has the "right stuff" to succeed in a corporate environment and fulfill his aspirations. He will make a unique and valuable contribution to our next class. Imagine You are a Member of the MBA Admissions Committee.
Jade Smith, a 30-year-old African-American female, is an impressive candidate who will make a strong contribution to Harvard's next class. Jade completed a dual degree in Chemistry and Women's Studies at Princeton University, where she maintained a 3.98 GPA. Her scientific major demonstrates her strong quantitative and analytical abilities, along with her commitment to academic excellence. Jade's ability to maintain top grades while pursuing many outside activities is particularly impressive. During her undergraduate years, Jade started and managed a web design business on the Princeton campus called www.SavvySkills.com. The firm provides low-cost web design services to job seekers in the community who wished to market themselves on the Internet. Jade contributed over 15 hours a week to this program, while also participating in the Tri-Delt Sorority, the Daughters of the American Revolution and the Sigma Xi fraternity. Her GMAT scores are also outstanding (740 composite). Jade’s career progress is unsurpassed. Since 1997, she has served as secretary to John Stevens, the Governor of New Hampshire. Jade is highly visible in the media, where she provides a voice for the Governor's position on issues such as Affirmative Action and reproductive freedom. On a regular basis, Jade assumes responsibilities that are rarely given to a junior consultant, including serving as the media liaison with the New Hampshire State Assembly. Jade also writes a monthly column for the New Hampshire Daily, which has the highest circulation of any newspaper in New England. Her 1999 series on gay and lesbian rights, "Choices in Peril," received a Pulitzer Prize nomination. Because of this recognition, Jade is often invited to speak about women's rights issues on television and radio talk shows. Jade's references confirm that she is a talented, dynamic woman with great potential for a political career. Her ability to flourish in a high level position without formal business training indicates her natural affinity for management. Jade currently manages a support staff of eight people, including several key players who normally report directly to the Governor. She understands how to manage and motivate people, both on her staff and throughout the community. Jade's political savvy, combined with her writing and entrepreneurial skills, will provide a unique addition to the classroom. She will also be a terrific asset to our community service and fundraising programs on campus. Jade's essays provided tremendous insights to both her character and motivation. Jade seeks a career behind-the-scenes in American politics, running the staff of a Governor, State Senator or other elected official. Jade is a clearly self-starter, creating situations in which she can use her strengths to promote worthy social and political causes. References confirm that Jade is not only motivated and intelligent, but also fun and outgoing. She is a tri-athlete and a talented concert pianist. Friends marvel at her high energy level and wonder how she manages to juggle so many diverse interests and responsibilities. I am certain that Jade will be a vibrant contributor to the class and a distinguished alumni. She is exactly the type of candidate we want to attract. Imagine You are a Member of the MBA Admissions Committee.
An MBA from Sloan will enable Jhana Lee to develop new businesses in Korea and to establish a nonprofit program to promote education. In preparation, she will embark on an MBA program that focuses on innovation, value-based leadership and fundamental business principles. By training, Jhana is an industrial engineer (Yale University, Class of 1997, 4.0 GPA). Jhana's career path has provided wonderful preparation for formal business training at Sloan. After five years as an engineer for General Electric, she advanced to a position in business management. In her new role, Jhana worked closely with General Electric's marketing team to open the company's first office in Korea. As project leWriteader, Jhana educated the marketing team about the Korean business culture and helped to develop a comprehensive business strategy for the new sales office. The promotion was an excellent opportunity to develop key leadership skills and a global business perspective. Jhana's promotion brought numerous challenges and opportunities for growth. Unlike her engineering position, Jhana's new function is managerial, including direct supervision of six employees. To bring the new office to fruition, Jhana rented office space and handled the relevant legal issues and regulations. Jhana served as liaison between customers, branch offices and governmental agencies, greatly strengthening her interpersonal skills. Jhana also built a strong marketing and engineering team, recruiting local talent with diverse backgrounds and skills. Though young, the office already generates additional revenue for General Electric from new customers in Korea. The team helped General Electric establish a strategic partnership with several large telecommunication firms in Korea to develop the local standard for cellular telephones. This partnership is a strategic coup, giving General Electric a competitive edge in developing future telecommunication products and services for the Korean market. Jhana also contributes her time and energy to relevant social causes. Throughout 2002, Jhana taught religion classes in a village primary school where the only available teacher was ill. Through this experience, she gained a first-hand appreciation of the unique challenges facing the Korean educational system. Insufficient government funding, economic disparity and an ineffectual management system threaten the already under-subsidized rural education programs. Sadly, in a country once known for educational excellence, the majority of the population has been left behind the boon of economic development. In addition to her teaching, Jhana also promotes an educational awareness program in Korea to teach methods to prevent and treat Hepatitis C. With increased awareness, Korea can implement effective programs to prevent the spread of Hepatitis C and to treat its victims with knowledge and compassion. Jhana's long-term goal is to establish a nonprofit organization to address the educational concerns arising from Korea's changing character. She is committed to making a personal contribution to ensure that the next generation is fully prepared to lead productive, fulfilling lives. Jhana's immediate post-MBA career objective is to work in a Korean government-backed or foreign-owned venture capital firm that focuses on Korea’s emerging markets. By promoting business development from the investment side, Jhana will expand her managerial skills and build a powerful support network. This preparation will enable her subsequent transition into the nonprofit sector. Jhana's international work experience allows her to pursue both professional and humanitarian goals in a developing nation. Sloan's strong entrepreneurial spirit, including its innovative “Entrepreneurship Lab,” will nurture her passion and provide hands-on experience on starting and building new business ventures. With her diverse cultural and professional background, Jhana has a lot to offer Sloan's collaborative culture. I recommend wholeheartedly that we accept her. Favorite Outside Interests On a personal level, my greatest accomplishment is music, my true passion. I started playing the violin and piano at age five and was "discovered" by a talent agent at age eight. Throughout my childhood, I competed rigorously in all types of events, including categories beyond my age group. Although I competed against older musicians from around the world, I usually won the events. Although I am justifiably proud of my achievements, I despise the labels "child prodigy" and "musical genius," which ignore the importance of discipline and skill in attaining my goals. For most of my life, I trained for at least six hours a day after school, with no guarantee of competitive success. Fortunately, my efforts paid off handsomely. I represented Canada in the 1992 New York Opera House Christmas concert, and later toured with the same group throughout Europe. I won an original composition scholarship to Harvard, which allowed me to train with Claude George, a renown music composer. Later, I was chosen to perform my own composition with the Boston Pops. My long journey to musical success thoroughly changed my character and self-awareness. Many years ago, my dad told me that “to succeed in this world is to fail deeply first.” Indeed, I failed many times before I tasted success. I learned to set expectations well above my goal and to always aim higher than the norm. By pursuing my true passion, I also discovered that the process and the journey are more rewarding than the outcome. My achievements in music gave me confidence in my ability to succeed in all areas of life. At a young age, I saw the phenomenal results of sacrifice, perseverance and having faith in myself. I am confident in my ability to set, manage and achieve ambitious goals. My experiences also taught me to define success in non-monetary terms. Long after the audience leaves the concert hall, music gives me a sense of satisfaction and fulfillment that money can not buy. Favorite Outside Interests Since early childhood, I have been fascinated by politics. Long before I was old enough to vote, I kept abreast of political issues and each major party's position on them. One of my biggest frustrations was the limitation of the two-party system, which reduced complex issues into arbitrary black-and-white dichotomies. I often wished there was a third choice for those of us who were open-minded enough to explore the myriad shades of gray, where most viable solutions can be found. For the past six years, I have been the President of the Utah chapter of the Green Party, which has gained a national reputation for the type of free thinking I enjoy. Yet even "my" party shows signs of cynicism in these tough times. When I tell people that I hope to run for elected office some day, their response is usually profound skepticism. "Who in their right mind would want to be a politician?" As a lifelong optimist, I am saddened by the negative perception of our government leaders. After a decade of business corruption (Enron) and political scandals (Whitewater and Travelgate), far too many Americans have lost faith in bureaucracy. Yet over the past several years, I have become intrigued by politics and the way our government works. An intelligent, free-thinking third party is essential to the concept of true choice. Promoting that party is my personal destiny. As I campaigned for several Green Party candidates in the 2004 elections, I became aware of pressing local interests and the power of an elected official to change them. Leaving their professional interests behind, our federal, state and local representatives work tirelessly to promote the best interests of their electorate. They are our voice. As I distributed pamphlets and held rallies, I was energized by the large turnout and the exceptional questions that citizens asked. Despite the media's focus on a few salacious scandals, politics remains an honorable profession for those who heed its calling. After studying political leaders, I concluded that many are motivated by personal gain, such as money, power and prestige. For our political system to work effectively, we need leaders whose first priority is representing their district. Although one person can't change all of the problems in government, (s)he can make a difference on a personal level. As a Green Party candidate, I am eager to assume the challenge. Favorite Outside Interests For many people, cooking is a nightly burden with few intrinsic rewards. When pressed for time, they are happy to grab a hamburger at McDonalds or pop a frozen pizza in the oven. Yet, for many generations of my family, cooking has provided a cherished social occasion to create and enjoy the most delectable dishes. My passion for preparing gourmet meals stems from my fond memories of childhood dinners in my parents' household. each Saturday morning, my mother asked for our input for Sunday dinner. We then spent our weekend procuring fresh ingredients at the Farmer's Market, where the smell of fresh produce permeated the air. After buying seasonal vegetables, we created delightful blends of international meals, including Adana kebab (a Turkish regional specialty) and Russian zucchini pancakes. Although these dishes took hours to prepare, once we sat down at the dinner table and began to discuss our day, the memories of our hard work dissipated into animated chatter and laughter.
Aside from my appreciation for good food, I never gave the physical act of cooking much thought until I moved to the United States at age 16 to spend a year with a host family. My initial adjustment to a steady diet of "convenience foods" was agonizing. Instead of the tasty dinners I enjoyed at my parents' home, we ate hamburgers, hot dogs and an occasional ready-mix chili. Even worse, my host family's spice drawer was collecting dust and their kitchen cabinets were filled with canned goods, which were a major taboo in my parents' home. Although I occasionally enjoyed fast food, I was not fond of eating it on a daily basis. Fortunately, my host family's busy lifestyle gave me the chance to develop my culinary skills. With my host mother's help, I took the initiative to create nice home-cooked meals. Ultimately, we both benefited from this experience; while I learned how to prepare American specialties like apple pie and Thanksgiving turkey, she learned how to make quick feta cheese pastries and a traditional shepherd's salad. After graduating from high school, I attended the prestigious Columbia School of Hospitality Management, where I combined my passion for cooking with my love for the hospitality industry. By attending classes in Wine History and Desserts Merchandising, I further sharpened my culinary knowledge and cooking skills. Thanks to my creative flair, I quickly developed a reputation for being a whiz in the kitchen. While most of my peers skimmed the necessary textbook chapters, I meticulously read the material and experimented with new recipes. In my spare time, I followed the trends of my favorite television chefs and re-created their most enticing concoctions. Years after completing my culinary education, cooking remains a major part of my life. Living in a culinary mecca like New York, I am continually inspired to try new things. Whenever possible, I flaunt my skills by entertaining my friends with themed dinner parties. Seeing their faces light up after taking their first bite out of one of my dishes strengthens my belief that good times are always enhanced by good food. Describe your most challenging professional relationship. As the vice president of the Rhode Island chapter of Sigma Tau Omicron, I promoted the training, education and public awareness of criminal justice professionals throughout the community. During my first year as an officer, I took my direction from Rick Binkley, our chapter president, who had nearly thirty years of law enforcement experience. During the first six months I knew Rick, he generously shared his time and expertise to help me understand the group's objectives. I looked forward to learning much more from him as a mentor and friend. Unfortunately, fate had other plans. On a rainy night in March of 2003, Rick was killed in a violent car crash. At age 54, he left his family, friends and peer shell shocked by his sudden passing. To my surprise, Rick's death left me as the interim president of Sigma Tau Omicron for the remainder of 2003. Despite his previous mentoring, I felt completely unprepared for the responsibility. So much of our group identity came from Rick's personality and dedication. He inspired loyalty and passion beyond my wildest dreams. How could I possibly fill his shoes?
More importantly, would the other members even want me to? Although the chapter members unanimously voted to retain me as interim president, they also revealed several pressing challenges. Despite Rick's calm demeanor and optimistic outlook, our group was actually in serious financial trouble. Before we could even hope to participate in a national conference, we needed to raise funds. Our previous efforts, through traditional bake sales, car washes and pot luck dinners, had barely covered our costs. With several charities expecting our support, including Toys for Tots, we needed several novel fundraising techniques. Thankfully, I have never underestimated the power of brainstorming. While still mourning Rick's loss, Sigma Tau Omicron members from across New England phoned us with creative suggestions to get our chapter back on track. They lent equipment for a carnival fundraiser and even offered to staff our booths. Everyone was committed to helping Rick's friends promote his legacy. The subsequent lobster fest in Rick's honor was well-attended and profitable. With the help of our brothers-in-arms, we achieved our aggressive financial goals and Sigma Tau Omicron survived for another year. I always felt that in some small way, Rick guided our group to our final destination. Describe your most challenging professional relationship. During my first year of study at the University of Connecticut, I was live-in caregiver for an 83-year-old lady with Alzheimer's disease. Many times, she could not remember details from one hour to the next. Upon our return from the library or grocery store, she would ask me to go back to get items she had forgotten on our first trip. Understanding her condition, I always happily and patiently accommodated her requests. One summer day, she fell on the beach during her morning walk and required medical treatment. I took care of her at the hospital and brought her to each follow-up visit. Although the lady's family expressed gratitude to me for making a "demanding" lady happy, I didn't consider my efforts to be particularly extraordinary. I loved taking care of her and took great pride in bringing joy to her final days. As a live-in caregiver, I gained first-hand experience working with a geriat predetermined plan that did not honestly address their problems. With mixed emotions, I reported the situation to management, who put the project on hold. Four weeks later, the team leader was transferred to another department and was replaced by a new leader who was committed to the original project. With his support, I helped the team successfully complete the project in a manner that was consistent with my core values.
While auditing a bank in Brazil, I discovered some unexpected interest accruals (totaling $283,000) in a savings account that belonged to the wife of a computer programmer. I confronted him, but he initially denied any knowledge of the funds. Upon further questioning, the employee confessed that he had falsified the instructions in the software and had embezzled money for several months. The programmer was fired, but he agreed to reimburse the money within two years Three months later, a local company requested a reference for the terminated employee. Our Human Resources Manager wanted to give him a positive reference, so we could recover the money. I disagreed, arguing that we should tell the truth. Ultimately, the General Manager agreed with my position. The bank's attorney drafted a letter stating that the programmer's performance was “less than satisfactory” without giving specific details. After one year, the programmer stopped making restitution to us. He moved to a limit country (Argentina), joined a local bank and committed the same fraud there. My decision was correct under the unusual circumstances. If we had been totally honest in our letter (by revealing the fraud), the fired employee could have sued us for character defamation, which would have been a public relations debacle for the bank. On the other hand, if we lied in his reference letter (to recover the lost money), my bank could have been liable for future problems at the employee's new place of business. Only by exemplifying our own highest principles could we ensure employee awareness and adherence to a corporate code of ethics.
Six months into my tenure with Dell Computer, the company opted to outsource the manufacturing function of our mother boards to a tiny firm in Venezuela. Although senior management assured us that the company was not a sweatshop that used child labor, I had my doubts. In my previous position with Hewlett-Packard, I had visited a manufacturing plant in the same city where Dell planned to do business. I saw with my own eyes the age of the workers and the inhumane conditions they endured. I strongly disagreed with Dell's decision to support this practice. Although I was not in a position to change the decision, I presented a videotape of my footage from Venezuela to a sympathetic manager in human resources. She promised to show it to the senior manager in charge of the move. She also asked me to document my concerns in a memo to senior management. My findings were influential in their decision to postpone the move. According to United Nations statistics, 250 million children between the ages of five and fourteen are exploited for cheap labor in manufacturing plants like the one Dell planned to build. Sadly, the "solution" to this type of exploitation remains elusive. Immediate bans, sanctions or boycotts cause corporations to fire the child workers without raising wages, which drives the displaced children to more dangerous forms of labor. Companies that exploit the low wages in these situations rob these children of a chance for an education and a real future. Dell's long-term solution was to build the plant in Venezuela, but to use creative solutions to prevent child labor. On the advice of a consultant, they shifted their focus to family-oriented efforts, such as providing school lunches and giving tax breaks to parents who sent their kids to school. In addition to alleviating the family's financial burden, this approach also promotes education, which eventually yields a better qualified work force. These changes, over time, will end child labor by empowering adults to earn a living wage without supplemental income from their children. I was proud to be a part of such a creative solution.
As an ICU nurse for Beth Israel Hospital, I work with patients of all racial, cultural and ethnic backgrounds. Occasionally, my own status as a Chinese-American creates a complex issue relating to medical ethics. One case last October was particularly challenging. An elderly Chinese woman was diagnosed with terminal cancer and had only a short time to live. According to contemporary ethics in Western medicine, the doctors were required to disclose her condition and offer all available treatment options. Her family vehemently opposed this disclosure. Since her death was imminent, they felt that any discussion regarding her prognosis would be impossibly cruel. As someone who was raised in China and educated in the United States, I understood both positions. In China, the family's wish would have superseded the medical community's desire for full disclosure. The patient would have been allowed to live out her final days in comfort and peace. In America, however, the medical community is compelled to offer all available treatments, even in terminal cases. They will not promote ignorance or destroy a patient's hope. The American perspective also acknowledges the need for the family to resolve legal issues, such as the execution of a living will. Sharing the prognosis in a timely manner gives the patient time to plan the funeral and make appropriate arrangements to settle the estate. In this particular case, a higher power resolved the situation for us, as the patient died before the doctors could disclose her prognosis. Under the circumstances, it was the best possible ending. Despite our best efforts to provide quality care to all patients, cultural clashes and ethical dilemmas are fairly common in multicultural health care settings. Families and physicians must work together on a case-by-case basis to find a mutually-agreeable solutions. Team Experience In early 2002, I assumed the responsibility of opening three Walmart Supercenters on the outskirts of Corpus Christi, Texas. The market, which was previously dominated by the floundering K-Mart Corporation, offered a promising opportunity for Walmart to penetrate an upscale urban area. To my surprise, our construction schedule hit an immediate snag because many of our Spanish construction workers did not speak or understand English. Their mistakes were not particularly costly, but they raised critical concerns about workplace safety and productivity. When I discussed them with Sara Carlisle, who was in charge of staffing the three stores, she expressed similar problems with our applicants for sales and service positions. Although many people were eager to work at Walmart, few had the requisite fluency in English and Spanish to adequately serve our multicultural customer base.
Rather than wait for a corporate directive from Bentonville, Sara and I took the initiative to solve the problem on our own. With the support of our colleagues, we were certain that we could teach classes to give our construction workers and sales staff a rudimentary understanding of English. I approached the director of a community service organization, who provided us with free books and tapes, along with a suggested curriculum. To encourage participation by the less-educated field workers, I distributed fliers that described how learning English would benefit them, both as individuals and employees. With no previous teaching experience, we began with a moderate level of trepidation. What if we were unsuccessful? What if our students didn't understand us? Fortunately, the camaraderie in our classes was intense and immediate. Our students were eager to learn and our teachers were eager to share their tips about what techniques were most effective. Within a few months, the demand for the program grew significantly, which motivated us to recruit more teachers. With the help of thirteen volunteers, Sara and I ultimately helped 282 students significantly improve their fluency in English. The results of our efforts were far-reaching. In addition to communicating better at work, many students got their drivers licenses and were able to assist their children with their homework. Some employees even received promotions at Walmart because of their increased fluency in English. The project was a powerful example of how a small team of motivated people can make a difference. By taking the initiative to mobilize our available resources, we helped our employees develop a skill that will last a lifetime. On May 1, 2003, Sara and I were honored to receive the 3-Star Volunteer Excellence Award from the Governor of Texas, in recognition of our service. Inspired by the results, I am eager to participate in future community service efforts.
As a relationship manager at Ameritrade, I develop and lead cross-functional teams to provide client solutions. In late 2003, I struggled to solve a communications problem that threatened a project's success. During an important business engagement, our client expressed dissatisfaction with the timing and coordination of a new service. When I investigated his concerns, I discovered that some of the deliverables he had expected were delayed because of communication issues on our team. To avoid losing his business, I took the initiative to resolve the issue in a timely manner. As the project leader, my first objective was to define each person's responsibilities and to explain their inter-relationship. The team members, which included specialists in technology, operations, business and the law, lacked the structure needed to work on a multi-faceted project. To alleviate uncertainty, I prepared a flowchart presentation that outlined each person's contribution and expertise. I explained how a delay by one person could create a crisis for someone else; they were humbled to see how a seemingly trivial mistake could sabotage the entire project. My second objective was to leverage the team’s strengths and weaknesses. To improve our communication, I scheduled weekly meetings to discuss issues and acknowledge major milestones. By fostering an environment that promoted feedback and teamwork, I encouraged the team to draw from their diverse perspectives to arrive at an effective solution. Whenever possible, I acknowledged superior performance and gave each member the opportunity to shine. By implementing a clear and measurable set of objectives, measures and rewards, the team eagerly took ownership of the project. Working with a cross-functional team is challenging because of the limited viewpoint of each member. By communicating effectively and drawing from diverse perspectives, I helped the team to develop and share a common vision. As a result, the team members felt accountable for the success of the project and not just for their individual contributions. By thinking strategically and solving a thorny organizational problem, I built camaraderie within the team and saved our relationship with a valued client. As an added benefit, our subsequent working relationships have been far more rewarding than I ever expected.
As a member of the elite, high-performance Honor Guard for the Joint Readiness Training Center at Fort Riley, Kansas, I am required to maintain exceptionally high physical and moral standards. We perform under close scrutiny for many high profile situations and dignitaries, including the Commanding Generals, honored retirees and visiting VIPs. My specific challenges relate to being the only female member of the ten-person team. Assimilating into the male-dominated squad was a challenge, as I had to learn numerous skills from a disadvantaged position. Although I outranked all but three team members, I had little experience in procuring equipment, arranging practices and delivering orders to subordinates. I relied on the graciousness of my fellow squad members to teach me these skills in a timely fashion. Within a matter of weeks, I had mastered the particulars of military drill and ceremony, including precision movements, attention to detail and performance under stress by supervisors. Fortunately, our group became quite close while dealing with these responsibilities. We weren't plagued with the sexual harassment issues that have haunted other areas of the military. My success is due in great part to my ability to put other soldiers at ease, and by not using my gender as leverage in difficult situations. Once my fellow squad members realized that I could perform my duties without special assistance, they treated me with respect and dignity. We became true friends, which is quite rare in the military. After September 11, 2001, we found ourselves in great demand to attend the funerals and memorial services of US Veterans who had been killed in the terrorist attacks. Despite the competing demands on our time, we refused to decline the invitations. For nearly two months, we flew to every service, whether it was located in the heart of New York City or the mountains of New Mexico. Amid the trauma and sadness of random death, we provided a formal presence of military support for the survivors of the deceased. The quiet dignity of each service bonded our group and kept us motivated throughout the difficult times. We are American soldiers who are dedicated to doing whatever is required to serve our country. That bond supersedes any individual issues we may have in any aspect of our daily operations.
Whenever I embark on a new venture, I tend to be very enthusiastic. As a result, my high energy level enables me to motivate people, get along with everyone and create a fun and supportive environment. After surviving the rotational nature of the eighteen-month training program at JP Morgan Chase, I learned how to be amazingly flexible. I circulated through a new business unit every three months, mastering different topics and business segments, adjusting to different groups and situations, and producing results in a short period of time. I quickly learned how to anticipate change and form solid friendships. By overcoming serious financial obstacles to put myself through college, I demonstrated great determination. To my family's pride, I was the first college graduate from our large, immigrant family, yet my education required great sacrifices. Starting in my freshman year, I worked 40 hours per week, in addition to my class work, to pay for school. Whenever I felt weary, I focused on my goal of being part of the Howard University legacy that produced some our greatest black leaders, including Thurmond Marshall and Stokeley Carmichael. Balancing my academic and personal activities was challenging, but it enabled me to graduate from college and to serve as role model for my family. Weaknesses. Many times, I am so eager to make a decision or solve a problem that I take action before gathering enough information. To address this weakness, I have made a conscious decision to thoroughly evaluate all relevant data before I act. As part of my due diligence, I pay particular attention to alternative solutions and evidence that contradicts my initial judgment. By doing so, I have increased my capacity for solving problems, making informed decisions, taking effective action, and generating new knowledge about a complex world. A second weakness is my tendency to become emotionally involved in my work. Rather than respond to a customer rationally, I tend to take a faster, empathetic approach. In customer service, this tendency has both positive and negative aspects; although men view emotional reactions negatively, women appreciate a response that is sensitive to their feelings. As I progress in my managerial career, I will try to strike a healthy balance between a style that combines the best aspects of rational and emotional models.
As a college student, my organizational skills have enabled me to juggle the demands of a double major with my participation in sports, volunteering and social outings. Unlike my friends, who must cram the night before an exam, I plan my work to meet my deadlines in a relaxed manner. Over the years, I have become highly disciplined in my study habits, avoiding the typical distractions that might interfere with my work. These skills have been invaluable in my career as a pediatric nurse, in which I must balance my clinical duties with the demands of research. My life has also been enhanced by my vibrant curiosity about different cultures. At age 29, I have already visited 18 countries on 5 continents, where I learned about the history, outlook and philosophy of several intriguing places. As a result of my travels, I have developed an interest in reading international literature and learning languages to better understand the intricacies of a culture and its people. In addition to English, I also speak French, Polish, Spanish and German and am currently learning to speak Russian. With each new language that I master, I expand my ability to touch the lives of others. Whenever possible, I give back to the community by volunteering at a local children's hospital. By making someone's day a little brighter, I have gained an appreciation for what really matters in life, which is family and friendship. To alleviate stress and keep in shape, I am also an avid athlete, with a flair for aerobics and intramurals. I particularly enjoy the sense of friendship and teamwork I have derived from tennis, which has taught me the importance of fair play and determination. Through sports, I continually challenge myself to extend the limits of my potential. My greatest weakness is self-criticism; as a perfectionist, I am rarely satisfied with my achievements. Rather than accept someone else's opinion that my work is excellent, I will continue to try to improve it. I also tend to focus on the negative and worry about small problems that could occur. These fears lead me to make conservative choices and miss out on opportunities because I am uncertain of the outcome. A final weakness is shyness, which prevents me from speaking up in group situations. Far too often, I get overly nervous when I have to give a speech, even though I have an excellent command of the material. Ironically, my perfectionism stem from the high expectations that I have set for myself. Thankfully, I have acknowledged this weakness and am trying to be more flexible. Rather than catastrophize a situation, I step back and assess things objectively. By participating in social and athletic activities, I have become more comfortable in group situations and have opened my world to new experiences. After careful introspection, I have realized that I cannot control every aspect of my life; sometimes things go wrong. By keeping a realistic perspective, I have balanced my desire for perfection with the knowledge that even the most talented and committed person sometimes makes mistakes.
From the time I learned to walk, I was an avid explorer. Childproof locks, closed doors and baby gates couldn't keep me from investigating every sound and smell that intrigued me. Almost twenty-eight years later, nothing has changed. I'm blessed with an extremely high energy level and a desire to embrace as many different experiences as life will allow. This hyper-enthusiasm is simultaneously my greatest strength and my greatest weakness. My passion for learning enabled me to graduate from high school at 16 with a full academic scholarship to Harvard. As one of their youngest students, I was determined to demonstrate my maturity, academic talent and my ability to fit in. I nearly killed myself in the process. As a freshman, I couldn't decide between majoring in Chemistry or Political Science, so I opted for a dual major. Between late afternoon chem labs and evening poly sci lectures, I often found myself completing homework assignments well after midnight. During my "down time," I traveled with the debating team and worked as a seamstress for the Hasty Pudding Club. "Free time" became an impossible fantasy. At first, I enjoyed considerable benefits from my frenetic schedule: a perfect 4.0 grade point average in two tough majors that I thoroughly enjoyed. In addition, I was team captain for the debating team during our 1997 national win, and was subsequently interviewed by Tom Brokaw for NBC News. My parents couldn't have been prouder to see their "little girl" taking Cambridge by storm. After two subsequent semesters of non-stop work, my over commitment finally caught up with me. During the spring quarter of my sophomore year, I contracted mononucleosis and was bedridden for three weeks. Contracting a serious illness forced me to face a tough reality; my over commitment was making me sick. Clearly, the little tiny explorer within me had to make some painful decisions. Thanks to my understanding faculty members, I recovered from my illness without seriously damaging my grade point average. But I also dramatically changed my approach to college life. I acknowledged that I couldn't do everything and that it was foolish to even try. By dropping my second major in Political Science, I had more time to focus on chemistry. I also stepped down from my participation in the Hasty Pudding Club, turning my seamstress gig over to someone new. With my newly-discovered free time, I invested more time into personal friendships and I joined a few social groups on campus. Occasionally, I indulged in the supreme joy of doing nothing, which is anathema to a high achiever! Ironically, the changes actually improved my performance. I graduated Summa Cum Laude from Harvard and remained a debating champ throughout my four years. But I did it at a slower pace, with fewer rigid deadlines, surrounded by a small circle of nurturing friends. Over the past six years, I learned that overachievers perform best (and most enjoyably) when they listen to their own hearts as well as to the demands of the outside world. While recognizing that no day is typical, describe a representative day. At 8:00 am my message light is already flashing. My Vice President is irate because my valuation is $50,000 below our client’s expectations. I hurry to his office to explain my analysis. After drilling me on every figure, he finally concedes. His ringing telephone interrupts further discussion, but his thumbs up authorizes me to confirm my numbers with the client. As I reach my desk, my phone is ringing. George Wyatt of the Bridgham Group has never organized an IPO before, so I walk him through the process and provide a detailed explanation for our proposed evaluation. I draft a presentation and stop by Glenda's desk, the analyst on the deal. Her frustration is palpable. “Just three days to prepare for the Collins presentation and I STILL don't have the data! Another all-nighter, I guess." Before discussing my needs with Glenda, I decide to take her for a cup of coffee. We formulate a plan to prepare the Collins material using junior support staff, if necessary. Glenda's focus must be on crunching numbers, not wasted on stapling documents. After a brief pep talk, I sense she is back on track. Next I am off to the conference room for a client meeting. The client, an international banker with limited command of English, immediately seeks my leadership. Drawing on my two-year internship in Costa Rica, I lead the discussion in Spanish, detailing the current state of the Latin American equity markets. We quickly conclude that the likelihood for a successful banking IPO is weak. Instead, we recommend selling the bank as the best way to unlock value. We establish a firm timeline to expedite the process. Returning to my desk after lunch, the voicemail light is flashing again. This call, from Human Resources, is promising. We recently extended an attractive job offer to a candidate for an junior analysts position in my group, and she made a reasonable counteroffer. I agree to her terms regarding vacation days and benefits, and await word on her final acceptance. I relish having another seasoned professional in the group to share the burgeoning workload. My whimsy is interrupted by yet another phone call, confirming a last-minute meeting with the marketing group. Glenda and I wrap up with marketing around 6:00 pm and discuss the Collins documents over Chinese takeout. She is feeling better and has some creative suggestions for the presentation. I have been in her shoes and understand her need for help and encouragement. Working as a team, we finalize the first batch of material by 9:00 pm. I walk Glenda to her car before heading home. While recognizing that no day is typical, describe a representative day. My day begins with a morning meeting with the sales group to discuss a critical issue with the proposed Tidy Cat co-packaging program. Due to limited resources, we can only fulfill customer demand by using a second source of clay. This is a sensitive issue with sales, as they believe that driving this revenue to a competitor, even temporarily, is bad for the company. I desperately need the support of the sales team for the program to succeed. During our meeting, I carefully demonstrate the long-term value of using the second vendor. Cooperative ventures provide us with supply flexibility during times when our plants work above capacity. Ensuring a stable product supply through co-packers fulfills the immediate customer demand and builds long-term consumer loyalty. As I demonstrate the detrimental effects of lost business due to our inability to fulfill demand, I finally sense that I have support from the team. In late morning, I wrap up outstanding issues with the Fresh Step fragrance reformulation. We recently signed a long-term exclusive supply agreement with a small, highly motivated fragrance house that specializes in dual action, time-released fragrance/biocide combinations.
The product is a great fit for our premium cat litter brand and I am excited about our potential competitive advantage. After reviewing the final contracts, I authorize the team to present the plan to the entire organization at our upcoming quarterly staff meeting. After lunch, I have a conference call with the Alabama plant to discuss a critical quality control issue. Recent batches of coarse cat litter from their plant have failed the absorption test and interact negatively with our classic fragrance. Consumer complaints from Walmart have reached a five-year high. Since they are our largest customer, we cannot afford to lose even a portion of their business. The Alabama plant has already identified a potential source of contamination and presents a plan for speedy resolution. We agree to speak via conference call in a day or so to discuss progress. After this meeting, I spend an hour checking my voice mail and answering my messages. My boss stops by for a quick chat about the upcoming Christmas party and we muse about our long, productive year. We enthusiastically discuss new projects and opportunities for future growth. Our discussion ends well after 7 pm, when we both head home for the evening. While recognizing that no day is typical, describe a representative day. As a high school English teacher, my daily schedule is fairly standard. I arrive at school at 7:00 am and take an hour to prepare my lessons. I teach three morning classes: Shakespeare, modern literature, and an honors class in poetry. Each group is filled with talented students who have a true flair for language. Although I always loved writing, I don't remember being as confident and articulate as these kids. My students are a refreshing contrast to the surly, self-involved teenagers who are personified in the media. I spend my lunch hour monitoring the cafeteria, affectionately known as "Food Cop" duty. With just 300 students, our school is small enough for me to get to know each child as an individual. At twenty-eight, I am old enough to be a role model, yet young enough to remember the pains of first love, acne and pop algebra quizzes. I spend most of my lunch hour discussing boys with Shauna, a fifteen-year-old cheerleader who thinks she's in love with a senior football player. I enjoy my banter with Shauna, a sensitive girl who just started dating. I hope the boy realizes how special she is. My afternoon classes are for freshmen with dyslexia, who struggle to process numbers and letters correctly. Although my students love to read, they feel the stigma of the "Special Ed" label that accompanies their disability. My role is more of coach and cheerleader, encouraging them during times of extreme frustration. I see progress, however, even on bad days. I am delighted to be an encouraging force in their life, acknowledging that their gifts to the universe will be quite different from my own. I remain at school until 4 pm, grading papers, reading essays and preparing my lesson plans for the following day. Occasionally, students will drop by my office to discuss an assignment or a short story they don't understand. A particularly enthusiastic junior is already researching colleges and asks my opinion of Brown University. After reminiscing about my years in Providence, I encourage her to apply. She wants to be an English teacher, and I know from personal experience that my training at Brown was exceptional. What was the most difficult constructive feedback you have received, and what did you do as a result of it? I became financially self-sufficient after my parents died, which required me to work long hours at several part-time jobs. Although this responsibility helped me to mature, it left me highly critical of those who seemed less conscientious. In high school, I didn't understand why other students didn't complete their assignments as quickly and perfectly as I did. My diligence became a source of frustration in college, where our grades were based primarily on our successful completion of group projects. My first year project team consisted of six members who were selected randomly within the department. After a few nonproductive meetings, I concluded that my teammates were uninterested in achieving our objectives.
 When I confided my frustration to my guardian, she warned me that I would not succeed by forcing my unrealistic expectations on the rest of the group. Instead, she suggested that I view the group project as a personal learning experience. Rather than harp on project goals, she encouraged me to help improve the team's morale. Before we could achieve our mutual objectives, we needed to learn how to work together and combine our individual strengths. My primary job was to improve communication and establish trust within the group. For the first time in my life, I assumed a leadership role and began to build a team. After studying our objectives, I divided the team into sub-groups to oversee the progress and technical content of a specific part of the project. Whenever possible, I assigned tasks that matched the skills and interests of my team members, which greatly improved morale. Each week, I organized group meetings and took minutes for those who were absent. I sent a meeting schedule and progress update to each group member via email. After we made these changes, group members became excited about making a contribution. As my guardian suspected, I achieved better results as a leader than as a critic. In my post-collegiate jobs, I continue to employ a similar approach in managing group situations. Instead of demanding results and getting frustrated, I create an environment in which everyone can perform to his or her full potential. Last year, I was part of a twelve-member team that developed a new product for an intelligent network project. Although I was relatively new to the project, my team building skills were essential to its success. From the project's inception, I assumed responsibility for meeting the product's quality requirements and deadlines. I initiated meetings to reorganize the technical team and to tackle problem areas. To accommodate our rigid deadline, we divided into sub-teams that worked in parallel. After consulting with our systems engineers, I revised our designs and kept management abreast of our progress. In October, we passed the quality control tests and shipped the product on time. Thanks to the lessons I learned from my guardian, I have repeatedly built solid teams that created success in bad situations. By remaining focused in difficult circumstances, I achieved aggressive goals and earned the respect of my teammates.
During my junior year in college, my English professor encouraged me to join the Latin Youth Federation, which sponsored debates among Latin students throughout California. One of the go "If I try to pick you up for lunch, it will take an extra 15 minutes. You know how slow the elevators are." I felt terrible when I received this instant message from my friend Joanne. My bold response: "I would have come and picked you up, but I guess that is where we differ." When we discussed the incident later that day, she blamed me for being overly sensitive. Although it wasn't the first time I had heard the accusation, I finally understood its significance. Previously, I had always viewed my sensitivity a positive quality which inspired my consideration toward others. Joanne's comment forced me to realize that being hypersensitive occasionally caused people to think less of me. Our argument was a startling wake-up call. Clearly, I needed to change my expectation that other people would act and speak the same way that I did. I also needed to learn how to take innocuous comments with a "grain of salt." My touchiness probably has its roots in my Turkish heritage, coupled with my upbringing in Germany. Both cultures place a high value on etiquette, which has certainly influenced my personality. Throughout my life, I have always read deeper meaning into other people's words or actions than they actually intended. If faced with more than one possible interpretation, I automatically assumed the worst. As a result, I created all sorts of drama in my head that simply didn't exist. When a co-worker failed to include me in his e-mail about an upcoming lunch event, I immediately thought that he had purposely excluded me. I later discovered that he had simply forgotten to include me in his mass e-mail. Far too many times, I assumed that a simple miscommunication was an intentional slight. After my conversation with Joanne, I was determined to take control of my hypersensitivity. Although it is not easy to change a twenty-year-old mindset, I am making progress. When I evaluate someone's comments, I simply take the words at face value and do not ascribe any "hidden meanings." By assuming the best, I can take things less seriously and avoid jumping to the wrong conclusions. In fact, I owe it to the people in my life to do so. After all, we each have a different value system, which affects our level of sensitivity toward others. Few comments are nearly as "personal" as I had assumed. My argument with Joanne is now in the past, as is my tendency to micro-analyze everything that I hear. Although I didn't immediately realize that she was trying to help me, I can now acknowledge Joanne's comments as constructive encouragement that inspired me to grow as a person. As I look to the future, I will use my sensitivity as a gift, rather than as a defense mechanism. I will no longer allow myself to sabotage good relationships by expecting others to see the world exactly the same way that I do.
Escrow accounts. Title searches. Contingency clauses. From my earliest memory, my life has been shaped by Suncoast Insurance & Real Estate, my father's successful real estate business. As the third generation of my family to work in the same field, I am honored to carry on the Smith legacy. In many ways, my parents are the embodiment of the American dream; they have used their innate talents to build a satisfying life doing something they love. Besides closing deals, my father's primary goal was to teach his three children the power of persistence and determination. With tenacity, he insisted, anything was possible. In my academic career, I definitely took his words to heart. By setting ambitious yet attainable goals, I learned how to push the limits of my scholastic potential. As a Real Estate major at the University of Florida, I maintained an excellent GPA while attaining all-district honors in baseball and golf. For the past six years, I have also worked at my father's firm, where I research deeds, measure homes for appraisals, and prepare sales sheets and photographs for real estate listings. Working with my father has given me the opportunity to acquire practical experience in an environment of integrity and trust. As a man of deep faith, I am committed to bringing strong personal values to all of my business transactions. By honoring God, I am able to successfully navigate all of life's experiences. As a student, I distinguished myself from others who lacked the commitment and social skills to thrive in the rigorous educational environment. In my four-year college career, I missed only one day of classes due to illness. In business, I bring a sense of honesty and trust to all transactions, acknowledging that a deal does not "work" unless it benefits both parties. In all aspects of life, my core values enable me to face the future with confidence and enthusiasm. Whatever challenges I may face, I am certain that I have the character and judgment to make sound, well-reasoned decisions. As I mature, I continually re-define my personal definition of success. In addition to a prosperous real estate career, I must also find time for sports, friends and family. As an undergraduate student, I sometimes struggled with the challenge of balancing my schoolwork with my other hobbies and interests. In some ways, my challenge was attributable to my inherently inquisitive nature; I have always enjoyed learning new things and participating in a diverse set of activities. By perfecting my time management skills, I graduated Summa Cum Laude from the University of Florida, while also volunteering for the American Cancer Society. By coaching basketball at First Unitarian Church and youth baseball in Orlando, I also assumed the responsibility of mentoring young men in the community. Although my schedule is often frenetic, the professional and psychological benefits are enormous. When I envision the challenges of business school, I am confident that I have the ability to set priorities and manage my time effectively. As I advance in the real estate business, I have discovered that my passion is converting undervalued properties into successful commercial units. Over the past two years, I have invested my own capital to convert four abandoned warehouses into thirty luxury condominium units. In Orlando's white hot real estate market, the project yielded nearly $6 million in profits. With my father's encouragement, I have drafted a long-term plan for the Somerset Plaza in Altamonte Springs, which will convert one-half of a million square feet of abandoned retail space into an assisted living facility for the elderly. The project will allow me to combine my love of development with my desire to make a long-term contribution to my community. With the skills I acquire at Harvard, I will be well prepared to achieve both objectives.
On several occasions, I have discussed my aspirations with Marianne Walters, a close friend and Harvard alumni who works as a commercial real estate developer in Boston. She assured me that my background in finance, along with my analytical nature, makes me an excellent fit for the profession. Yet my most valuable asset is my set of core values, which will enable me to to help struggling communities achieve their highest potential. Armed with a strong mind and a competitive spirit, I am eager to embrace whatever challenges Harvard may present. I cannot imagine a better legacy to leave in my parents' honor.
What matters most to me is making meaningful improvements in my native Iran. Although my short-term dream is to form a successful Internet business, my long-term aspiration is to graduate from business to politics. I take my cue from America, where industry leaders like Michael Bloomberg have revitalized communities and made great people leaders. Iran has been ravaged by several decades of “ivory tower” politics, corruption, unemployment and caste divide. For the nation to survive, a new breed of leaders must step in and make desperately needed changes. Sadly, Iran's younger generation has grown apathetic toward their community and society. After years of political corruption and rampant violence in elections, many have lost hope of a better future. I plan to be an advocate for change. Sadly, Iran's myriad problems have had terrible ramifications on her people. After decades of civil unrest, millions of children have been left without parents, and even fewer have enjoyed the benefits of an education. Throughout my childhood, I worked as a volunteer for Children First, a group that organized street shows, cultural exhibits and fundraisers to benefit abandoned children. As a volunteer, I organized the events, raised money and handled local marketing and publicity. But my greatest joy was simply spending time with the children. My first visit was eye-opening. Raised in a financially-secure home, I always enjoyed the love and attention of two doting parents. In contrast, the thirty-one orphaned boys shared a tiny house in the ghetto with one teacher and two nannies. Although the adults provided food and shelter, they did not offer parental love. At every visit, the children embraced me as a long-lost friend and enchanted me with their playfulness. My time with the boys was both exhilarating and sobering. Although I was delighted to enrich their day, I was saddened to know that they survived on charity and the kindness of strangers. Inspired by Children First, I continue to support organizations that serve the needs of orphaned and abandoned children. Here in the US, I am an active member of Imaginings, which supports an elementary school outside Tehran. In my role as fundraiser, I held two gala benefits, which raised over $300,000 for our cause. According to the teachers at the school, this money will support a full year of education for nearly three hundred students. Although several charities like Imaginings try to help children, Iran's political system must devote additional money and resources to alleviate such pressing social problems. Unfortunately, widespread corruption has prevented sustained improvement in these areas. Until Iran adopts a better political system with a sustained interest in helping disadvantaged people, orphaned children will rely on the generosity of charities. Wherever I go, I am committed to doing my part to alleviate their stress and provide the loving support they desperately deserve. Iran needs to implement a long-term plan to provide young people with exposure to political life. An excellent prototype is the White House internship program that was started in 1965 by John Gardner under President Lyndon Johnson. Over the years, it has given hundreds of young Americans a feel for politics and has cultivated leaders like Secretary of State Colin Powell and Retired General Wesley K. Clarke. I would like to promote a similar program in Iran to stimulate political interest among qualified youth. The contacts I make at Stanford will help me to fulfill my dream of building a stronger and safer Iran.
my first trip to New York City, I was amazed by the rugged skyline: what a marvelous human achievement! Later, as I walked through the airport, I saw a news clip about a teenage girl in Hawaii who lost her arm during a shark attack. Just three weeks later, she was back on her surf board with a smile on her face, as if nothing had happened. In that brief moment, the significance of the skyline paled in comparison to what the teenager had achieved. Her ability to rebound from a disaster and push herself to a higher level was a powerful example of the human spirit. What matters most to me is embracing life's challenges with a similar passion that will enable me to push the limits of my own potential. In my own life, I faced an unknown challenge when I began to train as a mountain climber. Despite my reputation as an excellent planner, I overestimated my ability to scale Angel's Peak in Zion National Park. Standing at an elevation of 2500 ft with a steep drop on either side, I suddenly experienced giddiness and nausea, the classic symptoms of acrophobia. With just a quarter mile to go, I ignored the symptoms and decided to proceed with the climb. Unfortunately, about a tenth of a mile from the summit, my legs began to shake vigorously and the giddiness threatened my visibility. Acknowledging this ailment was a tremendous blow to my pride, but I was determined to eventually conquer it. Later that year, I accompanied a group of friends on a 17-mile Half-Dome hike in the Yosemite Valley. After my experience in Utah, I was prepared for the aggressive climb. At the base of the final ascent, I was flooded with the same traumatic symptoms as before. After an initial period of self-doubt, I decided to work through them. After completing 8 miles, I simply refused to go back without reaching the top. As a precautionary measure, I wore glasses that blocked my peripheral vision. Focusing on the rock, rather than a potential fall, I eventually made it to the top. To this day, words cannot adequately describe the exhilaration I felt at that moment. On a deep emotional level, I realized the power of persistence in achieving a seemingly impossible goal. I also realized the many ways in which my challenges as a rock climber are similar to those I will face as a leader. Both situations require nerves of steel, along with a slow, careful plan to achieve a goal. In both cases, there are no hidden agendas; my only reward is the challenge of stretching my comfort zone by conquering a steeper climb with fewer footholds and handholds. Like management, scaling a cliff requires both physical and mental dexterity; surveying the terrain for routes and obstacles is as crucial to the climb’s success as physical strength and endurance. As I complete my application for business school, I am ready to embrace an interdisciplinary approach to solving the difficult problems that leadership will present. Just as I used a wide range of physical and mental strengths to scale the mountain, I will draw upon the resources of different disciplines at Stanford to develop decision-making or pricing models. Like most complex endeavors, climbing is actually quite simple if reduced to its fundamentals: planning, footwork and strength (finger, arm and back). Regardless of the level of difficulty, the same fundamentals help the climber negotiate the terrain. Similarly, Stanford teaches the basic concepts of running a business, which can be tailored in creative ways to satisfy different needs. Throughout my career as an engineer, I have often been presented with challenges that initially seemed impossible. Yet I systematically conquered each obstacle by using the same techniques as when I scaled the mountain. My motivation to complete my MBA at Stanford is to acquire the tools to scale even higher mountains and achieve more significant results. Thanks to years of preparation and training, I am ready. Just a glimpse of the Half-Dome poster in my room inspires me to challenge myself and explore the world outside my comfort zone. By overcoming my demons, I opened my mind to a million new possibilities for my future.
When comparing me to other applicants, I hope the committee will take into consideration my difficult adjustment to the United States. Throughout my childhood in Honduras, my mother often spoke of the "American dream." Unlike Central America, where jobs and education were restricted, the United States offered unlimited opportunity for those who were willing to pursue it. Although I was eager to move here, I didn't realize how hard I would have to work to succeed. When I came to the Bronx in 1993, I faced the formidable challenge of adjusting to a new country and language. At age seventeen, I enrolled in Morris High School, where I didn't know a soul. Making friends was difficult, as I barely spoke a word of English. My salvation was the school’s bilingual education program for students learning English as their second language. Through this program, I not only learned how to speak and write English, but was also encouraged to perfect my fluency in Spanish. With the patience and support of the faculty, I adapted well to my new school system. Unfortunately, the language barrier prevented me from competing successfully with other college students who were native speakers of English. Although I worked incredibly hard, my grades were primarily Bs and Cs, rather than the As I desired. Fortunately, as my English improved, so did my grades. By my senior year, I was in the top 10% of my class and had published three papers in peer-reviewed journals. I also was elected as captain of the University of Rhode Island nationally-acclaimed debate team. Throughout my life, I have become deeply appreciative of the opportunities I have reaped by living in America. Yet my struggle to perfect the English language is most certainly reflected in my grades. When evaluating my application, I hope the committee will look beyond my grade point average and consider the tremendous efforts behind them. In addition to learning a new language, I adjusted to a new culture and carved out my own unique set of values and goals. This maturity will be an asset to your school and will make me a more competent and empathetic professional. I chose Vanderbilt University both for its academic reputation and for its commitment to enrolling an international student body that is tolerant of diversity. I am eager to take my place on campus and make a positive contribution to the world. America has given me so much; I am eager to give back the fruits of my academic labor.
My GPA was nearly perfect until I suffered a severe injury during my junior year of college. While driving home from work, I spun out of control on a patch of ice and injured my right leg. Fortunately, fate spared me from permanent physical damage, but not from excruciating pain. In that split second collision, I broke four bones and needed extensive surgery to repair them. I also needed physical therapy to regain my muscle strength. During my two months in rehab, my focus was on recovery rather than schoolwork. Although I established a good rapport with my tutor, I couldn't concentrate on my assignments. During the first few weeks, I struggled with every minor detail of my hospitalization. I went from being a jock to a helpless patient who needed help going to the bathroom. It wasn't pretty. Thanks to the exceptional doctors, nurses and counselors on staff, I managed to get past my initial anger and complete my rehab in just nine weeks. Unfortunately, the emotional effects of the accident lingered well into my senior year. Because of the residual damage to my leg, I could no longer play football, which had a been a huge source of enjoyment and pride. My concentration deficit was also troubling. During fall semester, I struggled with a heavy course load, including graduate level classes in Physics and Differential Equations. Rather than take a reduced load, I opted to simply do my best and hope that my concentration would improve. Although it eventually did, my GPA paid a heavy price. I hope the admissions committee will understand. Two professors (Drs. Davis and Hanson), along with my rehab specialist (Dr. White), have provided reference letters to document my struggles after the accident. I offer their letters not as an excuse, but as evidence of the powerful support I needed to recover my mobility and graduate with my class. Several friends and advisors suggested that I should take a year off to fully recover. Looking back, that option would probably have enabled me to get better grades. Yet I am proud to graduate with my class. The accident was a setback, but not a fatal one. If given a chance, I will bring my dedication and tenacity to all of my endeavors. I am back in the game and ready to show you what I can do.
Many people are surprised to learn that I have struggled with dyslexia my entire life. Thankfully, by working with tutors to develop alternative learning methods, I have graduated from a top college, published an article and been promoted rapidly at work. In addition, I can clearly convey my thoughts and ideas, both orally and in writing. During my first two years of college, I did not request any special accommodations from the university for my dyslexia. Although I was "entitled" to take my exams in a separate classroom (with no time restrictions), I opted to compete with my classmates on a level playing field. My lower GPA for these two years reflects this decision. During my junior and senior years of college, when I was granted extra time on my final exams, I attained a perfect 4.0 grade point average. Unfortunately, my decision to avoid "special treatment" was later responsible for my mediocre score on the GMAT. When placed under considerable time pressure, such as a once-in-a-lifetime exam, I struggle with slips in visual processing and organization of written information. The first time I took the GMAT (in April of 2004), I did not request special accommodations for my disability. As a result, my score was not as high as I would have expected. In October of 2004, I re-took the GMAT under special conditions and raised my score from 660 to 730. Clearly, with additional time, I was able to demonstrate my mastery of the material. I want to assure the admissions committee that dyslexia has only a limited impact on my life beyond the fundamentals of reading and writing. Throughout high school and college, I excelled at math and science, demonstrating that strong ability to draw together disjointed pieces of information into one cohesive thought. Although dyslexia occasionally presents minor challenges in my life, I am confident that I can overcome them.
I would create an endowment to support a program like the Police Activity League (PAL), which builds children's self-esteem through community involvement. The Miami chapter of PAL nurtured my initial passion for sports and taught me the importance of teamwork. Under their auspices, I developed the discipline to succeed in athletics, along with the ability to keep things in perspective. With the support of my PAL mentor, I applied for several athletic scholarships, which paid my way through college. Looking back, I owe most of my career success to the abundant resources that PAL provided. I'm passionate about giving back to this fine group. In my spare time, I work as an instructor for our PAL youth program and serve as a lacrosse coach. In addition to improving my own game, I enjoy helping young players master the sport. As a criminal defense attorney, I see what happens to kids who don't get the type of nurturing and support that PAL provides. Without a guiding hand, kids fall into all types of criminal behavior that ruins their lives. PAL can help.
I would place the money in a trust to support cancer research. When I was twelve years old, I became the primary caregiver for my mother, when she was diagnosed with breast cancer. Her illness (and survival) left me acutely aware of our individual responsibility to make healthy lifestyle choices. Since high school, I have volunteered at several organizations that educate the public about preventive medicine. As secretary and treasurer of YSAC (Yale Students for the Awareness of Cancer), I led an an anti-smoking campaign and helped to educate older women about the importance of early detection for breast and cervical cancer. As a volunteer for Gilda’s Club, I coordinated parties and seminars for cancer patients and their families. I currently work with cancer patients at New Haven Oncology Associates, where I draw blood, conduct lab analyses and take vital signs. Helping others is the most rewarding aspect of my life. If I can put a smile on a patient's face for just one second, I feel like a success. Besides their underlying mission to prevent cancer, these groups also suffer from a chronic need for money. Each agency relies heavily on state and federal funds, along with the proceeds from public fundraisers. Sadly, the quality of services each group can provide is directly dependent on the availability of funds. I've seen first-hand the difference that a small contribution can make. I would place the million dollars in an annuity that would subsidize an aggressive educational program on cancer prevention. The money would also ensure that no patient would be denied essential treatment because of an inability to pay.
As the Director of Human Resources for the Mesa office of Dell Computer, I am continually challenged to attract and retain skilled workers in a technologically-driven economy. All too often, we must relocate employees from remote locations because we are unable to source viable candidates locally. With that in mind, if I had $1 million to invest, I would establish a not-for-profit and tax-exempt corporation that would increase computer literacy among local high school students. The money would cover the costs of a fullystaffed computer learning center in public high schools in Mesa that do not currently offer computer training. The centers would offer instruction on key skills of interest to employers, including common office applications, programming languages and networking fundamentals. After completing this training, the students would be well prepared to assume highly-paid skilled positions in the technology industry. Such a center would be a win/win in the burgeoning Mesa community. The students would receive targeted training without the costs associated with a four-year college degree. By developing a highly skilled work force, the area would be more attractive to high tech companies that may consider moving here. In the past three years, both Hewlett Packard and Cisco Systems have cited the "technically literate" workforce in Boston as the primary reason they chose the city as the location for their new manufacturing plants. With a better trained workforce, Mesa would be an alternative choice for these companies to consider. The "upward spiral" from this sort of growth is a precursor to many exciting possibilities. As more businesses relocate to Mesa, the city's tax base will increase, which will finance the necessary infrastructure that accompanies growth. It all starts with training. By producing a highly qualified workforce, we will set in motion an exciting cascade of events, which will culminate in Mesa becoming a "high tech community with a small town feel." In an industry dominated by expensive, overcrowded technology strips, such as Boston and Silicon Valley, Mesa would be a pleasant and affordable alternative. If you could be present at any event in time, what would it be and why? Looking back, it is one of my fondest childhood memories. After dinner, my grandfather and integrated America. Decades after losing both Thata and Dr. King, I struggle to carry on their dream. As a member of the Rainbow Coalition, I work tirelessly to promote equality in the US legal system. I am honored to have the camaraderie and support of leaders such as Rev. Al Sharpton and Rev. Jesse Jackson, yet I still wish that I had been part of the generation who knew Dr. King, a true American hero. Through books, videos and discussions with his peers, I have tried to acquire a sense of who he was and what he hoped his legacy might be. To whatever extent possible, I will pursue his dream.
 I would have loved to have been a NASA employee during the historic 1969 moon landing. My father was an engineer for the Kennedy Space Center from 1965 - 1971, where he worked directly on the landing mechanisms for the Columbia and Gemini modules. At the time, I was only three years old, but the event has attained legendary status in our family history. Throughout my childhood, I heard every remarkable detail about that night in the summer of 1969, when American astronauts defied the odds and landed on the surface of the moon. Although I did not share my father's passion for engineering, I envied his obvious pride at being part of something so magnificent. For many years, my father would call me after every NASA liftoff and recount the magical story of Neil Armstrong's "giant leap for mankind." More than any other moment, that event was permanently engraved in my father's heart. With my father's death in 2002, I lost my link to that sacred time and must rely on my own fading memories of the story. Although I was just a child, in my heart, I was there, too, sharing the pride of the possibility of life in an entirely new world
On December 20, 2003, the Pennsylvania General Assembly voted unanimously to declare over one million acres of land as "protected territory," which would prohibit its commercial development. As an advocate who lobbied strongly for the vote, I would have loved to have been present at the meeting. My work as a community advocate dates back to 1994, when the issue struck dangerous close to home. After the death of an elderly friend, his 12-acre spread of wetlands, ponds and natural wildlife in historic York County was sold on the condition that it would "not be developed." Just a few months later, several surveyors and building contractors tried to negotiate a development deal with the new owner. The ecological ramifications of the proposed development were staggering. Thousands of migrating Canadian geese would lose their habitat, which was federally protected by the United States Fish and Wildlife Service. In addition, the proposed environmental changes would threaten the endangered species of bog turtles that are indigenous to our area. With my wife’s support, I began a grassroots campaign to fight the development. Through pictures and testimonials, we documented the existence of the turtles to various state and federal organizations. We also displayed the photographs on our web site, and attended township meetings to educate the public about the devastating impact it would have on our ecosystem. Our results enabled the later findings of the US Fish and Wildlife Service, which protected the area to ensure the survival of the turtles. Our success in thwarting the development reinforced my long-term aspirations to work in local government. As a lifelong resident of York County, I felt compelled to infuse the local political system with a muchneeded sense of balance in making decisions that affect the community. Throughout the past decade, I've watched the community struggle with difficult issues relating to land consumption, rising taxes, historical preservation, and the economic incentive of real estate developers. Although one person can't change the world, an informed advocate can educate the public about the long-term ramifications of community growth. The December 20, 2003 decision from the Pennsylvania General Assembly was a wonderful reward for my efforts and a long-term benefit to the future of the state.. 1. The cover letter should conform to the standards of business correspondence and be addressed to the Admissions Committee. It should point out the features of your résumé that you believe to be of interest to the Admissions Committee, both in your education and in your work history. Further, please comment on your career goals and those factors which influenced you to pursue an MBA education. Additionally, discuss which management track appeals to you and how it fits your professional aspirations. We are also interested in what you believe you can contribute to the school and your fellow students, and we encourage you to describe your most substantial accomplishment.
An MBA from Sloan will enable me to direct and shape the growing Asian financial service industry. Since graduating from college, I have held several positions of increasing responsibility in the financial industry. I have specialized in information technology and equity investment and gained experience in both a small start-up company and an established global corporation. I am prepared to embark on an MBA program that focuses on innovation and fundamental business principles. After graduating from Harvard University in 1995, I landed my first job as a quantitative analyst at American Financial Products, an innovative firm that specializes in catastrophic reinsurance. My primary achievement was developing their internal risk management system. While AFP gave me my first hands-on experience with finance and technology, the opportunity to work for Citicorp in their Investment Management Division brought me to the forefront of finance and investment. Fisher Black, the creator of the "Black-ScholesMerton" option formula, was a partner in the division and founded the quantitative group. I first worked in the technology group and led a team of two software engineers to develop an Automated Trading System (ATS). The assets under management by the group have increased almost three-fold to $55 billion. Thanks to the ATS system, the same small staff of five handles the thousands of trades generated by the quantitative model every day. I was promoted to associate at Citicorp in 1999 and transferred into the product group. My responsibilities also broadened to encompass new model research and product development. I was assigned to a multifunctional project team to develop and launch a new tax-efficient investment product. After performing varied analyses and simulations, I eventually developed some robust investment strategies that underpinned the new product. We classified clients into three distinct groups and directly addressed each group's concerns. Our precise targeting enabled us to illustrate key benefits to each investor group in one single slide and powerfully differentiate our product from the competition. The product had the second most successful launch in Citicorp Asset Management history, drawing over $100 million in its first month, and has become a key revenue and profit generator for the group. The project has also been a tremendous learning experience for me. I came to appreciate the complexity of launching a new financial product, but also learned how to communicate with non-technical staff and contribute effectively in a multi-functional team. This rewarding experience reaffirmed my long-term goal to create innovative financial products and services for the Asian markets. Compared with the well-developed financial markets in the United States, the markets in Southeast Asia are still in their infancy. The savings rate is high in the region, yet the investment rate is still low. There is little choice in investment products and many of the recent advances in finance and risk management have yet to be applied. The opportunity will be greatest in China, due to the changes that accompany its entry into the WTO. Chinese banks, insurance and mortgage industries will be gradually deregulated, while their health care, education and housing system are privatized.
 As the Chinese financial needs become increasingly complex, their market will be seized by those companies that can offer innovative financial solutions. It is the right time for me to embrace these changes and take a leadership role in this historical transition. I want to be fully prepared to seize the opportunity presented by the opening of the Asian and Chinese markets. I have solid training in technology, finance, marketing and operations through my working experience in American Financial and Citicorp, but I realize that the depth and breadth of these experience are not to the degree that my goals require. A systematic examination of fundamental business theory in an MBA program will provide me the framework to run an international business unit. Equally important, advanced comprehensive training in finance will give me the strong foundation for new product development. Sloan's MBA program is ideal preparation for my career in finance. Graduates of the Sloan’s “Financial Engineering Program,” headed by Andrew Lo, created many of the innovative financial products traded on Wall Street. In my work at Citicorp, we use many of the tools developed by the Sloan faculty to assess and manage risks and returns on multi-billion dollar portfolios. It will be exhilarating to learn new advances in financial technologies directly from the leading faculty who pioneered these innovations at Sloan. Sloan is not only a place for me to learn, it is also a community for me to share and contribute. With my diverse cultural and professional background, I think I have a lot to offer to the Sloan community. I am eager to share my research and networks in Asian financial markets and bring the Asian cultural and business leaders to Sloan. I also hope to continue my commitment to helping young professionals develop their career skills. I directed a mentoring program in the National Association of Asian American Professionals in New Jersey/New York and hope to continue this work at Sloan. Please contact me if you need additional information regarding my application. I can be reached at (212) 555-5555 or through email at applicant@yahoo.com. Thanks very much for your consideration. Sincerely, 2. The cover letter should conform to the standards of business correspondence and be addressed to the Admissions Committee. It should point out the features of your résumé that you believe to be of interest to the Admissions Committee, both in your education and in your work history. Further, please comment on your career goals and those factors which influenced you to pursue an MBA education. Additionally, discuss which management track appeals to you and how it fits your professional aspirations. We are also interested in what you believe you can contribute to the school and your fellow students, and we encourage you to describe your most substantial accomplishment. Dear Committee Members, The two most influential people in my life chose paths on the extremities of the professional spectrum. My father, with the goal of remaining in academia, completed his doctoral and post-doctoral degrees in chemistry. He later joined a multi-national chemical conglomerate as a chief chemist, and retired from the same company 25 years later as the head of R&D. He reveled in various roles, providing leadership and technical expertise at many different levels of management. To my father, the security and benefits of a large company far outweighed the excitement and heady feeling associated with a business start-up. My uncle, on the other hand, decided at a young age to become an entrepreneur. Identifying the need for automotive suspensions in the booming public transport industry, he started his own manufacturing plant on the outskirts of New Delhi. With careful expansion, the plant eventually employed 65 people, but it stagnated after its first 5 years. As a kid, I was attracted by the constant influx of people and materials in the plant. During one of the quiet times, I asked my uncle why some of the idle lathes were in different stages of assembly. He simply said, "I experiment during slow times." At age twelve, I didn't appreciate the underlying implications of his passion for engineering and entrepreneurship. I simply knew that he struggled to remain self-employed, convinced that his brain child would someday blossom into a successful enterprise. I silently wondered if it was worth it. Fifteen years later, my own understanding of technology and the need for a creative outlet not only propel my future, but enable me to understand my uncle's dream. His business was never about money, but about honoring his calling; he focused his heart, mind and soul on an endeavor that could make a difference in the world and provide him with a sense of independence. Sadly, my uncle did not possess the business background to bring his dream to fruition. He never made the perfect leaf spring, nor did he ever get rich. Yet his dedication to entrepreneurship provided a powerful example that continues to inspire me. As an engineer, I am committed to combining my passion for technology and entrepreneurship into my own successful venture.
An MBA from Sloan is an essential next step in bringing my dream to fruition. To achieve this goal, I opted for a career path that embodied the best of what academia, industry and self-employment had to offer. Although I yearned to embark on my own enterprise, I decided to wait until I had acquired the requisite academic training to succeed. To explore my love for engineering, I completed my undergraduate degree at BITS, one of India’s premiere engineering institutes. I later completed my Masters degree at the University of Virginia, where I received an NSF grant to perform research. My findings yielded two conference publications, along with a paper in the prestigious Journal of Applied Electronics. In addition to its didactic rigor, graduate school refined my thought process and shaped the way that I solve problems. I loved the challenge of analyzing complex situations and exploring creative ways to achieve a goal. I also learned how to present well-reasoned responses to tough, open-ended questions, and to encourage the same level of critical thinking in others. Years after graduation, I continue to embrace complex engineering problems with the same curiosity and enthusiasm. Following graduation, my work at Cisco Systems provided numerous opportunities to manage people, projects and resources. The company culture, which combines the benefits of a large firm with the high energy level of a start-up venture, has enabled me to grow, both personally and professionally. My initial challenge was to provide technical leadership. In the summer of 2000, to reduce risks and obtain more competitive pricing, Cisco experimented with new foundries, which gave me a taste of the business side of technology. When Cisco abandoned the turnkey backend model (fabrication, testing and packaging) for building its chips, I assumed a technical leadership role by setting design methodology and driving global tasks across the project. With team members scattered across the globe, my technical challenges were usually amplified by cultural and language differences. On one occasion, to meet a looming design deadline, I lead a multi-team technical discussion at 4:00 am with the help of a Chinese translator. Later projects taught me how to lead by innovation. I showed my creative flair on the XXX team, when I architected a new repair mechanism for YYY, a cutting edge processor in the low-end internet server space. The first of its kind at Cisco, the design drastically cut the silicon area and reduced the tester time, yielding sizable cost savings. My latest projects have taught me how to motivate people. After just 2 years at Cisco, I led a team of 10 designers that delivered the largest embedded memory in company history. Throughout the project, my job was complicated by morale problems that surrounded Cisco's fresh round of layoffs. As expected, few team members felt secure about their jobs. While encouraging them to remain positive, I also recommended that they mentally prepare for the impending lay-offs by attending resume writing workshops and interview training courses that the company provided. By acknowledging their fears and sharing my own concerns from time to time, I built a strong spirit of camaraderie. At this point in my career, I have demonstrated key skills as a technical manager in all phases of circuit design, yet I yearn to solve larger, more multidimensional problems. I am particularly intrigued by the possibility of bringing new technology to the marketplace through my own entrepreneurial venture. To achieve this goal, I must augment my technical expertise with fundamental skills in business. Before I initiate my own start-up, I must learn how to lead multifunctional teams in all aspects of an organization, including finance, marketing, strategy, sales and general management. Since people are the cornerstone of a successful enterprise, I must learn the best possible ways to hire, train and motivate them. I also want to polish my communication and negotiation skills. Sloan's program brings together high caliber students from all walks of life to share their collective wisdom in a congenial setting.
 For me, a Sloan MBA will be an accelerated learning experience to help me answer my call to lead. Following graduation, I plan to join a venture capital firm that specializes in the hi-tech industry, where I can leverage my engineering experiences and learn to drive a start-up from concept to liquidity. While I explore the intricacies of venture capital investing, I will build the contacts necessary to start my own company. During this period, I will explore the possibility of locating part of the firm in India. As "outsourcing-gone-wrong" stories proliferate in the marketplace, I want to make sure that I can partition the operations in a manner that lends itself to the off-shore model, taking advantage of the cost efficiencies and avoiding the pitfalls. I will also build strong synergistic links with academia through my contacts at the University of Virginia, utilizing their expertise to research the technical depth of the idea. With a soundly researched idea, a firm footing in the venture capital business and a group of able professionals surrounding me, I will be prepared to embark on my venture and fulfill a dream that I have nurtured since childhood. Since I moved to Chicago in the summer of 2001, I have completed several advanced circuit courses via Northwestern University and have helped my colleague give lectures for the undergraduate version of the course. Additional classes in Kellogg's continuing education program, such as “Global Strategic Thinking Tools” and “From Idea to Reality,” have helped me to step out of the engineering mold to view an organization from a business perspective. In 2003, I joined the International Business Development Network (IBD), which provides a forum for high technology professionals, venture capitalists and entrepreneurs to learn from each other and form valuable partnerships. Located near Boston's famed "technology strip," Sloan offers several unique benefits for aspiring entrepreneurs. In my second year of the program, I will use the flexible course structure to explore classes in Strategic Management and Entrepreneurship. As an engineer, I will stay abreast of my field by joining the Business Association of Engineering Students (BAES), which will provide continual opportunities to network. The Private Equity Seminar will help me to develop my investing skills among global experts in the field, while I explore my passion for self-employment in the Entrepreneur and Venture Capital Clubs. Combined with the collective expertise of the faculty, which boasts impressive, real-world experience, Sloan is easily the best fit for a technical manager like me. As part of Sloan's distinguished alumni, I will leave a sustainable legacy in the world of technology. Sincerely,
My application to Sloan's MBA program is the culmination of nearly a decade of preparation in both academia and industry. My extensive technical training at Peking University, one of China's finest academic institutions, has provided me with the analytical background to handle the quantitative aspects of the MBA program. My graduation among the top 5% of my class, along with my decision to pursue concentrations in both chemistry and engineering (although only a single discipline was required), further demonstrate my ability and willingness to handle the heavy workload for which Sloan has become famous. After completing my undergraduate studies in 1998, I moved to the United States and joined HewlettPackard, the world's leading manufacturer of scientific instruments for the chemical industry. After several promotions, I eventually became responsible for the company's entire line of Analytical Products, which comprises over 54% of the company's $128 million business. One of my proudest accomplishments was the formation of a strong and effective interdepartmental team. By introducing the idea of cross-functional work teams to my division, and ensuring their effectiveness through open communication, I championed projects that generated a $9 million sales increase in 2003. My team building skills will be invaluable in my project work at MIT. Next to my broad professional experience, my extensive career in chemistry, engineering and scientific instrumentation has given me unique insight to three highly competitive industries. In each of these fields, a technical paper in an influential journal, or a presentation by a leading scientist, can make the difference between the success or failure of a product. These are also sectors in which companies are willing to make large capital investments based upon a single promotional demonstration. My in depth knowledge of these unusual industries will enable me to bring an alternative perspective to classroom discussions at Sloan. I am also eager to share my thoughts about unexplored opportunities in the scientific instrumentation business. For someone with dual expertise in technology and business, there are highly lucrative portions of the market that have yet to be reached by traditional forms of marketing. By targeting several of these "smaller" markets with non-traditional sales methods (including direct marketing and the Internet), a firm could easily develop a lucrative niche without investing significant capital. Opportunities like this will invariably be interesting to other students at the Sloan School of Management. Although I have increased my sales forecast each year, my current position as Director of Analytical Sales has helped me realize that I need additional financial, marketing, and strategic management skills to further grow my product group. While investigating my options for formal business training, I found that MIT's program was the best fit for my background and objectives. Sloan's "New Product and Venture Development" track offers exactly the balance of technical and entrepreneurial expertise that I seek at this stage of my career. NPVD courses like "Management of Technological Innovation," and "Marketing Strategy" will introduce me to innovative design and marketing methodologies pioneered by MIT faculty, and will help me understand their use in other industries. Furthermore, courses like "Planning and Managing Change" will advance my leadership skills and help me reach my goals in the rapidly changing technology field.
Following graduation, a degree from MIT Sloan's School of Management will help me pursue my dream to become CEO or owner of my own high-tech company. I am eager to discuss all aspects of my candidacy at a formal interview. Please contact me at (212) 555- 5555 or at applicant@yahoo.com to arrange a mutually agreeable day and time. Thank you for your consideration. Sincerely, Leadership Experience The most important aspect of leadership is setting an excellent example. As a Loan Manager at First National Bank, I encourage my employees to spend whatever time is necessary with a prospective customer, regardless of their financial status. Some employees balk, as they feel that they are wasting their time with unqualified buyers. They prefer to run a credit check first, and only "invest" the time in establishing a relationship when the client has officially qualified for a mortgage. Through an unexpected example, I showed my staff the folly of this approach. On one occasion, I spent nearly two hours explaining various mortgage options to a young man who was thinking of buying a house. I explained several different ways of borrowing money, along with the potential pitfalls of each. He graciously thanked me and left without completing the application. To a casual observer, I had just "wasted my time." To my employees' surprise, the young man returned a month later and specifically asked to speak to me. He brought his elderly grandfather, who owned several pieces of prime real estate just outside of town. Remembering my explanation of the power of equity, the young man asked me to arrange a "reverse mortgage" that would allow his grandfather to use his equity in the properties to cover his living expenses. The older man was delighted by our talk, which alleviated a financial crunch that he didn't know how to resolve. Within a week, I had arranged a lucrative reverse mortgage for the grandfather, which was also profitable for the bank. After the older man's death a year later, I also handled the purchase of his grandson's beach house. Whenever a new employee questions our policy of "service with a smile," I always tell that story. As the group leader, it is my responsibility to set an excellent example of how our customers should be treated. Even if we don't immediately close a deal, we have much to gain by taking the time to get to know potential customers. In my tenure with First Natonal Bank, we have earned the reputation of being a friendly bank with a big heart. What we lose in short-term revenue we more than make up in community goodwill. As a leader, I wouldn't have it any other way. Leadership Experience In June 2003, I joined Ralston Purina in a leadership position to manage the construction of a $50 million pet food plant in Ottawa, Canada. As the Director of Operations, I am responsible for managing the contractors and guiding their timely completion of the project.
Right from the start, my job was complicated by legal and bureaucratic red tape. As a matter of corporate policy, Ralston Purina hires local subcontractors to handle the initial phases of construction and installation. In this case, a substantial portion of the work was subcontracted to Premier Construction, a large conglomerate with thirty years of experience in home construction in Canada and the United States. As a strategic alliance between two of Canada’s largest companies, we were required to offer the work to Premier, even though they were not experienced in commercial construction. Almost immediately, there were serious problems. To my dismay, Premier subcontracted out the work to multiple agencies, which created a coordination nightmare. I found it extremely difficult to maintain the project schedule without implementing drastic measures. As an initial step to facilitate coordination among multiple contractors, I held weekly training sessions to teach the project teams how to plan and coordinate their work. I helped each contractor plan and schedule his activities and explained how a delay in his work could impact the completion of the entire project. Although the tutorials helped, they were not enough to keep the project on schedule. We eventually discovered that that real issue was not with the coordination among second-tier subcontractors, but with the main contractor, Premier Construction. As the leading project planner, I performed several schedule analyses and instructed Premier to increase their workforce to maintain the schedule. Unfortunately, Premier’s team did not understand commercial construction and refused to take instructions from us. As the weeks passed, we continued to fall behind schedule. Because of Premier’s continually poor performance, I finally decided to involve senior management. At a critical meeting, we explained our concerns and asked their senior managers to replace several key people on the project. Things did not improve until our executive VP expressed severe reservations about continuing our strategic alliance. In October of 2004, Premier finally replaced their troublesome key project personnel. The new staff, although inexperienced in commercial construction, willingly followed instructions and coordinated well with us. By following our instructions over the last several weeks, Premier has made considerable progress and has caught up with the original schedule. Tough times call for tough measures. Facing fines of $65,000 per day for late project delivery, I took strict measures that yielded positive changes. The experience taught me that as a responsible leader, I must occasionally make harsh decisions to meet my team's objectives. Although the project is not yet complete, we are back on track. My tenacious efforts to solicit better performance from Premier has helped my company avoid paying hundreds of thousands of dollars to the client for late project completion.
After completing my BA in Social Work at Vassar College, I accepted a position with Planned Parenthood of Pittsburgh. My initial responsibilities were in office management, although I quickly advanced to an administrative role as program director and clinical coordinator. In this capacity, I devoted every spare moment to promoting our services in the community, including reduced-price gynecological exams, pregnancy testing, birth control counseling and programs to prevent and treat sexually transmitted diseases. I also championed a sexual education curriculum that promoted contraception, AIDS awareness and sexual abuse prevention. For many years, our services were heralded in the community as an invaluable resource for women of all ages. Unbeknownst to us, things would soon change. In the late 1990's, we frequently found ourselves under attack by right-wing activists who did not support women's rights. For many years, we were the only facility in Beaver County to provide first trimester pregnancy terminations. Unfortunately, the local Republican party and their Christian supporters resented our commitment to performing services that they personally opposed. Protestors began to picket the clinic, accost our patients and threaten their lives. They blocked the entrances to our building, which made it difficult for our patients to enter and exit. Several times, we received bomb threats and had our windows broken by demonstrators. Despite my fear, I was compelled to take a stand. In 1998, I managed Senator Harry Jones' re-election campaign, briefing him on abortion rights and sexuality issues in health care reform. I used my visible position in Planned Parenthood to lobby at the state level against parental notification laws for minors who received abortions. I coordinated grassroots lobbying efforts on pending legislation that would make violent acts committed by the clinic's protestors part of the proposed "hate crime" bill. I also worked as an advocate for the legalization of the RU-486 abortion pill. After Senator Jones' election, I accepted a position as an Administrative Aide in his office in Harrisburg, which provided greater professional responsibility than I had at Planned Parenthood. I also assumed the presidency of the newly created Pennsylvania Women's Health Advocacy Group, which promotes women's health initiatives on the state level. In my current position, I research legislation, design lobbying strategies and serve as liaison with affiliated organizations throughout the state regarding pending policies and bills. Although I derive tremendous satisfaction from my work, I yearn to make a greater contribution. An MBA will provide the technical skills and professional influence to better confront right-wing legislation and initiatives. It will also improve my ability to design and advocate original social policies that benefit women's rights. After business school, I hope to continue working for women's advocacy groups such as Planned Parenthood and the ACLU Reproductive Freedom Project. Long before I was born, feminists such as Simone de Beauvoir and Elizabeth Cady Stanton devoted their lives to ensuring that women received the same personal and professional opportunities as men. I am committed to protecting their hard-won gains for future generations.
free to draw on previous experience, if applicable; in order to illustrate your approach. This situation requires a good moderator who can guide the energy of the group in the right direction. I would try to make the best possible use of our eleven hours. I would first propose a cooling-off period to relieve the team's tension. A project can be successful only when the team members acknowledge a strong sense of unity and commonality of purpose. This requires a fresh mood and mutual cooperation. With a fresh start, we could bring a new perspective to the project and examine solutions we previously missed. I experienced a similar situation when I was on a team that developed a new web site, Success.com. We had just two months to develop the site, and only one week to finalize the technology. With a tight deadline, we couldn't decide between two competitive options to enable our secure server. One was a new technology early in its development cycle, while the other was a proven entity. Part of our team was passionate about using the new technology, while others were more comfortable relying on a tried-and-true option. When we started our discussion, both groups were adamant about their choice of technology. After a period of acrimonious debate, I proposed a break. I suggested a game of basketball, a favorite pastime of many team members. While forming the two teams, I assigned the most hostile people from opposite camps onto the same team. I wanted to reinforce their feelings of cooperation and melt down the competition and ill will. After a half hour, the game dissolved all of the anger, allowing us to return to our project with a newfound camaraderie. After the game, each team presented its case without objection or criticism from the other side. As each group spoke, I was amazed at their commitment and confidence. Both sides enthusiastically discussed benefits, drawbacks and essential support tools. With our hearts open to new ideas and opportunities, we jointly decided that we would investigate future uses for the new technology, but we couldn't use it now with our limited time frame. We all united behind our project goal and were able to achieve our objective. I would use a similar approach in the Learning Team scenario. I would propose a cooling-off period, then encourage each team member to voice his concerns and suggestions. I would reinforce the spirit of camaraderie and our mutual interest in a successful resolution. From my experience with the Success.com team, I learned that conflict resolution is an essential managerial skill. Whether our business produces gasoline or web sites, we must manage teams that work together and produce effective results. At Wharton, the Learning Team, which consists of approximately five first-year students, are often assigned group projects and class presentations.
In a stressful group situation, I would assume the role of mediator and try to resolve the impasse. My first step would be to solicit each person's input on an individual basis. Then, I would clarify the points on which we all agreed and focus our future discussions strictly on the area of contention. Our next step would be a brief debate in which each side would take a few moments to calmly present their position. As moderator, I would take notes and keep the discussion on target. After a careful discussion of both sides, we would hopefully reach a workable compromise. If not, I would exercise my authority as moderator to make the final decision. Throughout all phases, I would ensure that the survival of the project remained the primary objective, rather than anyone's individual ego. I have found myself in similar situations in my work in Student Government and in my job with Chase Manhattan Bank. In both places, I drew upon my interpersonal skills to serve as a peacemaker in team discussions. A great asset is my hobby of studying languages. Whatever a team member's background, I can remove a communication barrier by speaking his language and relating to him on a personal level. Through my international travel, I've grown to respect people from many different cultures. I am receptive to different opinions, and believe that I can benefit greatly from the experiences and viewpoints of others. I don't change my mind easily, but I am open to accepting a new viewpoint if the argument is convincing. My multicultural background is a particular strength in my job at Chase Manhattan, where I develop and maintain new clients in South Africa. I frequently work on project teams that include members from Ghana, Zambia and the Ivory Coast. With a sensitivity to different cultures and a knowledge of their languages, I easily accept the role of mediator. If I can't attain an agreement or compromise, I propose a practical solution to meet our deadline. At Wharton, the Learning Team, which consists of approximately five first-year students, are often assigned group projects and class presentations.
In my work as a corporate psychologist, I frequently find myself in the role of mediator. It is my job to assume the role of peacemaker during difficult times. After the impasse, I would arrange for a brief break and resume the session by stating the team's goal for the specific project. I would then ask each team member to limit all comments to those that support the final objective. We would then each take ten minutes to state and explain our positions without interruption. During each presentation, I would record all of the data on a flip chart. After the final presentation, I would summarize the data into arguments for and against the two choices. The written summary is usually a strong ice-breaker, as team members discover that their positions aren't nearly as different as they originally suspected. Seeing the evidence for each side in writing, we would easily identify the few points of actual disagreement. Our remaining discussion would focus on those. We would then discuss and resolve the final points, basing our decision strictly on what would best achieve the overall project objective. In the event of a tie vote, I would exercise my power as a tie-breaker to resolve the impasse. Fortunately, this would not likely be necessary. In my fifteen years on the job, I have never had to cast the deciding vote. Teams usually reach an impasse because members don't feel their voices are being heard. By allowing each member to state his/her position, and by assuring each member an equal voice, we would re-build the team's spirit of cooperation and reduce the effects of bruised egos. The team would ultimately agree to a workable compromise that satisfies the primary objective. I've successfully used this actual approach many times at General Electric and can attest to its power and simplicity. Your boss has given you the opportunity to write your own annual review. Knowing that your boss wants you to provide an unbiased appraisal, please provide an evaluation of your strengths and weaknesses. List your accomplishments and provide a plan to address areas of improvement. I successfully completed all of my objectives for Fiscal 2000 in the Human Resources Department. Under my direction, our department filled three engineering vacancies, two management positions and trained a new office staff for the recently expanded product development group. I am proud of our ability to recruit, train and challenge such a talented and dynamic group of people. My greatest accomplishment was the design and implementation of the language lab at corporate headquarters. Nearly 40% of our management staff travels internationally, yet few are conversant at even a basic level in the native languages of the countries they visit. Several key managers indicated to me that their lack of fluency hindered their ability to do business internationally. My goal was to provide basic language training in-house in self-paced tutorials. The program's objectives were to provide a basic level of conversational skills in Spanish, Portuguese and Italian at 30% of the current cost for an individual Berlitz class. Our final product, the corporate language lab, greatly exceeded my initial expectations. I was able to purchase all of the necessary equipment at wholesale prices and utilize the wasted space in the old R&D laboratory. Our new language lab is attractive, functional, well-equipped and soundproof. Three managers from marketing recently completed the basic class in Spanish and complimented my group on the efficiency of the program. I am certain that our lab will improve our managers' performance and reflect well upon our corporate training practices. The project allowed me to demonstrate my organizational skills and negotiating abilities. I enjoyed interacting with employees from other departments to identify and fulfill their training needs. My goals for Fiscal 2004 include expanding the language lab to include training in German and Japanese and to offer advanced classes in Spanish and Italian. I also plan to provide a model of our program to our Las Vegas facility for possible implementation there. While I enjoyed developing the language lab, I discovered that I needed better training in accounting and finance to handle the purchasing aspects of the project. I want to be certain that my expenses are cost-effective for the company and the best possible choices available. I plan to enroll in a local college course in the evening to brush up on the basics and be better prepared for the next phase of the project. Your boss has given you the opportunity to write your own annual review. Knowing that your boss wants you to provide an unbiased appraisal, please provide an evaluation of your strengths and weakness. List your accomplishments and provide a plan to address areas of improvement. My proudest accomplishment of 2004 was solving the processing bottleneck in portfolio management. Recognizing the issue's importance and complexity, the firm previously attempted to fix the problem, but achieved only partial success. I coordinated the team that ultimately eliminated the bottleneck. Leveraging my technology skills and business knowledge, I successfully collaborated with traders, portfolio managers, compliance officers and data vendors. Along with a team of three software developers, I created a system that seamlessly processes trading information. The new system eliminates hours of manual work each day and enables further automation to increase our asset management capacity. I value this accomplishment not only because of its visible impact on the group’s profitability, but also because it demonstrated my ability to lead a cross-functional team to solve challenging problems. I also initiated a new analyst training program in the asset management group. Through conversations with new analysts, I discovered that they didn't fully understand the underlying issues behind their technical knowledge and how their work fit in with the rest of the firm. I proposed an informal group Q & A session to help them understand the key concepts. I prepared a handout on key terminology, formulas and concepts, and used examples from our work to build intuition and understanding of these ideas. The program received overwhelmingly positive feedback and was expanded into a formal oneweek training program. It later attracted analysts from other groups. I was delighted to make a contribution that improved the productivity of these analysts. In their annual reviews, many analysts cited this training program as the most useful and relevant part of their orientation. Through the program's implementation, I learned how to communicate abstract concepts into easy-to-digest ideas and came to appreciate the concepts on a much deeper level. During 2005, I plan to deepen my knowledge of international finance, improve my communication skills and practice different leadership styles. I will build upon my knowledge of the financial products and institutions in the US and explore relevant issues in international finance. I am particularly intrigued by the differences in accounting standards and the intricacies in the legal infrastructures. I also want to sharpen my presentation skills, to clearly articulate my thoughts to a wider audience. With my increasing management responsibilities, I aspire to develop my unique leadership style, which strikes a balance between democratic empowerment and decisiveness in facing difficult choices. Your boss has given you the opportunity to write your own annual review. Knowing that your boss wants you to provide an unbiased appraisal, please provide an evaluation of your strengths and weaknesses. List your accomplishments and provide a plan to address areas of improvement. My strengths are best reflected by my diverse accomplishments in both technical areas and in management. On a technical level, I led the project team that developed an e-commerce site for a British telecommunications firm, Alliance.com. Using our client's his initial vision, we developed the specifications and implemented the actual site within a rigorous six-week deadline. In addition to handling the design challenges, I also managed the personnel. My team consisted of fresh college graduates who were full of enthusiasm but lacked sufficient knowledge of implementation. I provided professional guidance and focused their enthusiasm in the right direction. My endeavors paid off when my team met our deadline and delivered a great finished site. I also managed a successful project to redesign the web site for Ameritrade, adding a new research section as a trading tool. After completing fifty percent of the site, we discovered that the technology they chose was not uniformly supported, which could potentially affect 5% of total users. We opted to change the architecture in spite of our limited choices and imminent deadline. With a concerted team effort, we delivered a finished product that satisfied everyone. I am proud of my contribution to the site's state-of-the-art design and ease of use. I am also committed to addressing my personal weaknesses. When delivery dates are short and I feel pressured, I can become demanding. I need to develop better stress management techniques to remain calm in the face of pressure. To accomplish this, I plan to take yoga classes at our company's fitness center on a weekly basis. I also want to develop general business skills to augment my technical background. I can make a greater contribution to future projects with a better understanding of finance and marketing. I plan to enroll in undergraduate classes in these areas at our local community college. We all experience “defining moments,” significant events that can have major impact on our lives. Briefly describe such an event and how it affected you After my father's death, I became the president of his fledgling sporting goods business at age nineteen. I inherited three small stores, about half a million dollars in inventory and thirty-five employees who didn't know how to run the stores in my father's absence. Since my practical experience was limited to my summer employment during high school, we had no "expert" to guide our maiden voyage. With the deck stack against me, I left college to try to keep the business on track. Through hard work and dedication, I discovered that anyone can be a leader. The primary requirement is that you want to do it. Lacking formal management training, I applied the underlying principle of the Golden Rule. In all interactions, I treated people the way I wanted to be treated. I listened to my employees and took their suggestions to heart. I renegotiated my father's credit lines with our vendors, citing my determination to make the company a success. I took risks, made tough decisions and forced myself to solve problems that few nineteen-year-olds ever consider. Durring difficult times, I sought the advice of my college mentor, who offered his assistance whenever I needed it. After hearing my explanation of the company's status, he assured me that I was doing all the right things. Although I didn't become a millionaire, the company survived and eventually thrived. I attribute my success to my use of the same management principles my father used throughout his thirty-year career. I was honest, fair and committed to delivering a great product at a great price. I was willing to work hard and take responsibility for my mistakes. I also wasn't afraid to ask for help when I needed it. Being a great manager is less about knowing the answer than finding the person who does. With the unwavering help of my staff, I built a business that would have made my father proud. We all experience “defining moments,” significant events that can have major impact on our lives. Briefly describe such an event and how it affected you Two sets of clothes, a dictionary and an envelope with $2500 in cash. These were the items I crammed into my two suitcases when I entered the United States in 1996. Through movies, books and magazines, I always knew that the United States was a country of freedom and democracy. My entire life, I dreamed of enjoying these benefits. My successful relocation to the US, despite numerous financial, cultural and language challenges, remains my greatest personal achievement. It also helped me to develop and exemplify the personal values I hold dear. My initial challenges involved language skills and money. I knew studying in the United States would remain a dream unless I perfected my English and secured the financial resources for tuition and fees. In addition to my regular classes at the American International University, I took an evening class in English to perfect my skills. My persistence paid off. After months of intensive study, I earned one of the highest TOEFL scores ever achieved by a Japanese student. Money was a more formidable challenge. Although my acceptance to Northwestern University included a partial scholarship, I still needed money to cover my expenses. I borrowed from every friend, relative and acquaintance I knew, including many who earned less than $100 USD per month. By lending me money, they placed incredible faith in my ability to succeed. I was determined not to let them down. In my first class, Expository Writing, we had a short writing assignment for every class and six longer assignments throughout the semester. Although I had studied English intensively in Japan, it was very different from the challenge of competing with American students in a writing class. My first graded paper came back covered with red ink and a C grade. I knew that I had a lot to learn. I reviewed each change the teacher made and solicited feedback from my classmates. I also used the wonderful tutoring service offered by the English department, having upperclassmen review and critique my writing. I was delighted to learn the subtle and different ways they would express an idea. I completed a few rounds of re-writing for each assignment, incorporating the tutor’s suggestions to express my thoughts more clearly and succinctly. My grades and confidence increased with every writing assignment. When I realized that I could compete at the same level with American students in an English writing class, I knew I could surmount other challenges as well. My successful relocation to the United States helped me to develop and exemplify the personal values I hold dear. I learned how to meet commitments with hard work and determination. I developed the ability to focus on an objective, analyze my options and develop a plan of action. By achieving a meaningful goal under difficult circumstances, I gained confidence and maturity. There is an old Japanese saying that when God wants to assign you an important task, He will first test you. He will make you hungry and tired, and will let you feel desperate and deserted. If you can thrive under these difficult circumstances, you are ready to assume the important task. I know in my heart that my relocation to America repeatedly tested my determination and commitment. My success will always stay with me, and I try to imbue my resulting pride, devotion, and sense of responsibility in all of my professional and personal endeavors. We all experience “defining moments,” significant events that can have major impact on our lives. Briefly describe such an event and how it affected you For the first several hours, my mind and body were completely numb. Friends told me that "life" would continue, yet I simply couldn't imagine it. No one could have prepared me for the devastating news; my best friend, whose presence had enlightened my world, had used a shotgun to take his own life. Throughout several subsequent weeks, my mind raced with unanswerable questions and inconsolable thoughts. Why had Elliot committed suicide? What unimaginable pain did he hide behind his sparkling eyes and easygoing demeanor? And why couldn't I, his best friend, have somehow intervened and helped him? Consumed with anger and confusion, I wanted to hide from the world. Yet my anger quickly turned to depression, as I questioned the value and purpose of every aspect of my life. Did I still want to become an engineer? Could I somehow muster the concentration to study? As my life quietly slipped from my hands, I desperately needed guidance and direction. Ironically, my salvation came through a newspaper article about Books Without Borders, which offered international volunteer opportunities for college students. Rather than wallow in frustration, I decided to channel my energy into helping others. Ultimately, my nine months with Books Without Borders provided the journey of a lifetime. With my natural love for children, I taught English, math, science and geography to Somali children and Buddhist Monks. While cutting trails in the rain forest in Brazil, I learned that hard work and sweat do wonders for the mind and soul. I also learned the power of my own perseverance. While trekking over 100 miles in the Himalayan mountains (elevation > 10,000 feet), I didn't initially think that my knees would make it. Yet, I persisted through the pain and completed the trip. My reward was the amazing view at 13,000 feet, including the majestic glory of glaciers, mountains and trickling waterfalls. Overwhelmed by nature's beauty, I enjoyed one of my first moments of clarity following Elliot's death. By persevering through my pain, I finally felt a sense of overwhelming peace. Once I returned to the United States, I brought the same perseverance to all of my endeavors. My volunteer work gave me the opportunity to put my life into perspective and to determine my own definition of success. In addition to helping others, I wanted to become the best at something I loved, preferably in the international community. I subsequently completed my degree in humanities at Temple University, where I took every available class in international studies. As president of Temple's chapter of Homes for Humanity, I continued my volunteer work among a group of like-minded souls. Homes for Humanity attracted my passion because of its commitment to giving a helping hand, rather than a hand-out. By harnessing the talents of people from all races, religions and socioeconomic groups, HH gave dozens of disadvantaged families the gift of home ownership. In my three years as president, our tight knit group brought happiness to many families throughout Philadelphia. I was particularly humbled by the response of a single mother and her children, who cried with happiness when we gave her the keys to their new home. Her joy was worth all of the sweat, sacrifice and frustration that I endured while trying to complete the project. This feeling of satisfaction is what drives me and makes me feel that my life is worthwhile. No matter how busy I am, or how much money I have, helping others will always be a priority. As I approach the MBA admission process, I am reminded of the devastating day seven years ago when I learned of Elliot's suicide. Inspired by grief, my subsequent soul-searching shaped the compassionate and persistent man I have become. Although I will never understand why Elliot lost hope for the future, his senseless death motivated me to identify and pursue my own passions. Although I can't save the world, I can use my skills to make a positive difference in every life I touch. That is my legacy to Elliot. Situation in Which You Failed As the team leader at Educational Outreach, I was responsible for coordinating Los Angeles Career Day, a two-day event in which 50 students and 10 advisors visited businesses and government agencies throughout the LA metropolitan area. With limited time and resources, I had to coordinate numerous office visits and activities over the two-day period. To provide the students with a enjoyable experience, I arranged a schedule based on age, grade level and academic performance to ensure that each child had maximum exposure to the activities and career area that I believed (s)he would find most entertaining.
